		tou'to gavr ejstin qevlhma tou' qeou' 
4:3	a.	in fact this is (the) will of God
		oJ aJgiasmo;" uJmw'n  
	b.	namely your dedication to God
		ajpevcesqai uJma'" ajpo; th'" porneiva" 
	c.	that you stay away from sexual immorality
		eijdevnai e{kaston uJmw'n    
4:4	a.	that each one of you know
		to; eJautou' skeu'o" kta'sqai ejn aJgiasmw'/ kai; timh'/   
	b.	his own sexual life (is) in dedication to God and (in) respect
		mh; ejn pavqei ejpiqumiva" 
4:5	a.	not in passion of lust
		kaqavper kai; ta; e[qnh   
	b.	just as indeed the pagans
		ta; mh; eijdovta to;n qeovn 
	c.	the ones not knowing God
		to; mh; uJperbaivnein   
4:6	a.	not to sin against
		kai; pleonektei'n ejn tw'/ pravgmati to;n ajdelfo;n aujtou' 
	b.	and to take advantage of his fellow being in the matter
		diovti e[kdiko" kuvrio" peri; pavntwn touvtwn 
	c.	because (the) Lord (is the) punisher in all these things
		kaqw;" kai; proeivpamen uJmi'n 
	d.	just as we also told you before
		kai; diemarturavmeqa  
	e.	and we also warned (you)
		ouj ga;r ejkavlesen hJma'" oJ qeo;" ejpi; ajkaqarsiva/ 
4:7	a.	because God did not call us for immorality
		ajll! ejn aJgiasmw'/ 
	b.	but for dedication
		toigarou'n oJ ajqetw'n 
4:8	a.	therefore the one rejecting (the call)
		oujk a[nqrwpon ajqetei' 
	b.	does not reject (a) human being
		ajlla; to;n qeo;n  
	c.	but God
		to;n »kaiv¼ didovnta to; pneu'ma aujtou' to; a{gion eij" uJma'"   
	d.	the One indeed giving His Holy Spirit to us
		peri; de; th'" filadelfiva"  
4:9	a.	now about loving one's fellow believer
		ouj creivan e[cete 
	b.	you have no need
		gravfein uJmi'n  
	c.	to write to you
		aujtoi; ga;r uJmei'" qeodivdaktoi ejste 
	d.	because you yourself are taught by God
		eij" to; ajgapa'n ajllhvlou"   
	e.	that to love one another
		kai; ga;r poiei'te aujto; eij" pavnta" tou;" ajdelfou;" 
4:10	a.	also in fact do this to all the fellow believers
		»tou;"¼ ejn o{lh/ th'/ Makedoniva/    
	b.	[the ones] in the entire Macedonia
		parakalou'men de; uJma'" ajdelfoiv 
	c.	further we urge you fellow believers
		perisseuvein ma'llon    
	d.	to do so in abundance even more
		kai; filotimei'sqai hJsucavzein 
4:11	a.	and to aspire to live a quiet life
		kai; pravssein ta; i[dia  
	b.	and to do your own things
		kai; ejrgavzesqai tai'" »ijdivai"¼ cersi;n uJmw'n   
	c.	and to work with your [own] hands
		kaqw;" uJmi'n parhggeivlamen 
	d.	just as we commanded you
		i{na peripath'te eujschmovnw" pro;" tou;" e[xw    
4:12	a.	so that you behave decently before the outsiders
		kai; mhdeno;" creivan e[chte    
	b.	and (so that) you have need of no one
		ouj qevlomen de; uJma'" ajgnoei'n ajdelfoiv  
4:13	a.	now we do not want you to be ignorant fellow believers
		peri; tw'n koimwmevnwn 
	b.	concerning those being dead
		i{na mh; luph'sqe kaqw;" kai; oiJ loipoi;  
	c.	so that you may not be sad just as also the others
		oiJ mh; e[conte" ejlpivda 
	d.	the ones not having hope
		eij ga;r pisteuvomen o{ti 
4:14	a.	for if we believe that
		!Ihsou'" ajpevqanen kai; ajnevsth 
	b.	Jesus died and came back to life
		ou{tw" kai; oJ qeo;" tou;" koimhqevnta" dia tou'; !Ihsou' a[xei su;n aujtw'/  
	c.	thus also through Jesus God will bring with Him those having died
		tou'to ga;r uJmi'n levgomen ejn lovgw/ kurivou o{ti  
4:15	a.	for this reason we say to you by (the) word of (the) Lord that
		hJmei'" oiJ zw'nte" 
	b.	we the ones living
		oiJ perileipovmenoi eij" th;n parousivan tou' kurivou 
	c.	the ones being left behind for the coming of the Lord
		ouj mh; fqavswmen tou;" koimhqevnta" 
	d.	we will not at all go prior to those having died
		o{ti aujto;" oJ kuvrio"  
4:16	a.	because the Lord self
		ejn keleuvsmati   
	b.	with (the) call of a command
		ejn fwnh'/ ajrcaggevlou   
	c.	with (the) shout of (an) archangel
		kai; ejn savlpiggi qeou' 
	d.	and with (a) trumpet sound of God
		katabhvsetai ajp! oujranou' 
	e.	will come down from heaven
		kai; oiJ nekroi; ejn Cristw'/ ajnasthvsontai prw'ton 
	f.	and the dead in Christ will come back to life first
		e[peita hJmei'" oiJ zw'nte" 
4:17	a.	then we the ones living
		oiJ perileipovmenoi 
	b.	the ones remaining
		a{ma su;n aujtoi'" aJrpaghsovmeqa ejn nefevlai" 
	c.	we together with them will be snatched up in clouds
		eij" ajpavnthsin tou' kurivou eij" ajevra  
	d.	to meet up with the Lord in (the) air
		kai; ou{tw" pavntote su;n kurivw/ ejsovmeqa 
	e.	and thus we will always be with (the) Lord
		w{ste parakalei'te ajllhvlou" ejn toi'" lovgoi" touvtoi" 
4:18	a.	therefore encourage each other with these words
