		peri; de; tw'n crovnwn kai; tw'n kairw'n ajdelfoiv 
5:1	a.	but about the times and the occasions fellow believers
		ouj creivan e[cete uJmi'n gravfesqai 
	b.	you have no need (that it) be written to you
		aujtoi; ga;r ajkribw'" oi[date o{ti 
5:2	a.	for you yourselves know exactly that
		hJmevra kurivou wJ" klevpth" ejn nukti; ou{tw" e[rcetai 
	b.	(the) day of (the) Lord comes thus like (a) thief in (the) night
		o{tan levgwsin eijrhvnh kai; ajsfavleia  
5:3	a.	when they say peace and safety
		tovte aijfnivdio" aujtoi'" ejfivstatai o[leqro" 
	b.	then immediate destruction overtakes them
		w{sper hJ wjdi;n th'/ ejn gastri; ejcouvsh/ 
	c.	like the birth pains to the one being pregnant
		kai; ouj mh; ejkfuvgwsin 
	d.	and they would certainly not escape
		uJmei'" dev ajdelfoiv oujk ejste; ejn skovtei i{na  
5:4	a.	but you fellow believers are not in (the) darkness that
		hJ hJmevra uJma'" wJ" klevpth" katalavbh/ 
	b.	the day should overpower you like (a) thief
		pavnte" ga;r uJmei'" uiJoi; fwtov" ejste kai; uiJoi; hJmevra"  
5:5	a.	for you all are persons of light and persons of (the) daylight
		oujk ejsme;n nukto;" oujde; skovtou" 
	b.	we are not of night and not of darkness
		a[ra ou\n mh; kaqeuvdwmen wJ" oiJ loipoiv  
5:6	a.	so then let us not sleep like the others
		ajlla; grhgorw'men kai; nhvfwmen 
	b.	but let us be alert and sober-minded
		oiJ ga;r kaqeuvdonte" 
5:7	a.	because those sleeping
		nukto;" kaqeuvdousin 
	b.	they sleep at night
		kai; oiJ mequskovmenoi 
	c.	and those getting drunk
		nukto;" mequvousin 
	d.	they get drunk at night
		hJmei'" de; hJmevra" o[nte" 
5:8	a.	but we being of (the) day
		nhvfwmen 
	b.	let us be sober-minded
		ejndusavmenoi qwvraka pivstew" kai; ajgavph" 
	c.	putting on (the) breastplate of faith and of love
		kai; perikefalaivan ejlpivda swthriva"   
	d.	and as helmet (the) hope of salvation
		o{ti oujk e[qeto hJma'" oJ qeo;" eij" ojrgh;n   
5:9	a.	because God did not subject us to anger
		ajlla; eij" peripoivhsin swthriva"  
	b.	but to (the) experience of salvation
		dia; tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	c.	through our Lord Jesus Christ
		tou' ajpoqanovnto" uJpe;r hJmw'n 
5:10	a.	the One having died for us
		i{na ei[te grhgorw'men   
	b.	so that whether we may be alive
		ei[te kaqeuvdwmen   
	c.	or whether we may be dead
		a{ma su;n aujtw'/ zhvswmen  
	d.	we would live together with Him
		dio; parakalei'te ajllhvlou" 
5:11	a.	therefore encourage one another
		kai; oijkodomei'te ei|" to;n e{na 
	b.	and build up one the (other) one
		kaqw;" kai; poiei'te 
	c.	just as also you do
		ejrwtw'men de; uJma'" ajdelfoiv  
5:12	a.	now we ask you fellow believers
		eijdevnai tou;" kopiw'nta" ejn uJmi'n  
	b.	to respect those labouring among you
		kai; proi>stamevnou" uJmw'n ejn kurivw/   
	c.	and having guided you with regard to (the) Lord
		kai; nouqetou'nta" uJma'" 
	d.	and also instructing you
		kai; hJgei'sqai aujtou;" uJperekperissou'  
5:13	a.	and to regard them very highly
		ejn ajgavph/  
	b.	with love
		dia; to; e[rgon aujtw'n 
	c.	due to their work
		eijrhneuvete ejn eJautoi'"  
	d.	live in peace among yourselves
		parakalou'men de; uJma'" ajdelfoiv 
5:14	a.	further we appeal to you fellow believers
		nouqetei'te tou;" ajtavktou"  
	b.	admonish the lazy ones
		paramuqei'sqe tou;" ojligoyuvcou"  
	c.	encourage the discouraged ones
		ajntevcesqe tw'n ajsqenw'n  
	d.	help the weak ones
		makroqumei'te pro;" pavnta"  
	e.	be patient with all
		oJra'te mhv ti" kako;n ajnti; kakou' tini ajpodw'/   
5:15	a.	see to it that no one repays someone evil for evil
		ajlla; pavntote to; ajgaqo;n diwvkete kai; eij" ajllhvlou" kai; eij" pavnta"  
	b.	but always pursue the good for one another as well as for all
		pavntote caivrete 
5:16	a.	always rejoice
		ajdialeivptw" proseuvcesqe 
5:17	a.	pray without ceasing
		ejn panti; eujcaristei'te 
5:18	a.	in everything give thanks
		tou'to ga;r qevlhma qeou' ejn Cristw'/ !Ihsou' eij" uJma'" 
	b.	for this (is the) will of God for you in Christ Jesus
		to; pneu'ma mh; sbevnnute 
5:19	a.	do not withstand the Spirit
		profhteiva" mh; ejxouqenei'te  
5:20	a.	do not despise prophecies
		pavnta de; dokimavzete  
5:21	a.	further evaluate everything
		to; kalo;n katevcete 
	b.	continue to follow the good
		ajpo; panto;" ei[dou" ponhrou' ajpevcesqe 
5:22	a.	keep away from any form of evil
		aujto;" de; oJ qeo;" th'" eijrhvnh" aJgiavsai uJma'" oJlotelei'"   
5:23	a.	now may the God of peace Himself make you completely holy
		kai; oJlovklhron uJmw'n to; pneu'ma kai; hJ yuch; kai; to; sw'ma ajmevmptw"  
	b.	and may your entire spirit and soul and body be kept  
		thrhqeivh 
		blameless
		ejn th'/ parousiva/ tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou' 
	c.	at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
		pisto;" oJ kalw'n uJma'" 
5:24	a.	faithful (is) the One calling you
		o}" kai; poihvsei  
	b.	He who also will accomplish (it)
		ajdelfoiv proseuvcesqe »kai;¼ peri; hJmw'n   
5:25	a.	fellow believers pray [also] for us
		ajspavsasqe tou;" ajdelfou;" pavnta" ejn filhvmati aJgivw/ 
5:26	a.	greet all the fellow believers with (a) holy kiss
		ejnorkivzw uJma'" to;n kuvrion 
5:27	a.	I put you under oath by the Lord
		ajnagnwsqh'nai th;n ejpistolh;n pa'sin toi'" ajdelfoi'" 
	b.	that the letter be read to all the fellow believers
		hJ cavri" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou' meq! uJmw'n 
5:28	a.	the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ (be) with you
