		aujtoi; ga;r oi[date ajdelfoiv  
2:1	a.	you yourself indeed fellow believers know
		th;n ei[sodon hJmw'n th;n pro;" uJma'" o{ti  
	b.	the coming of us to you that
		ouj kenh; gevgonen   
	c.	it has not taken place in vain
		ajlla; propaqovnte" 
2:2	a.	but having suffered already
		kai; uJbrisqevnte" 
	b.	and having been maltreated
		kaqw;" oi[date 
	c.	as you know
		ejn Filivppoi"  
	d.	in Philippi
		ejparrhsiasavmeqa ejn tw'/ qew'/ hJmw'n 
	e.	we were bold in union with our God
		lalh'sai pro;" uJma'" to; eujaggevlion tou' qeou' 
	f.	to speak to you the good news of God
		ejn pollw'/ ajgw'ni 
	g.	in much struggle
		hJ ga;r paravklhsi" hJmw'n 
2:3	a.	for our earnest request (to you)
		oujk ejk plavnh" 
	b.	(is) not from deception
		oujde; ejx ajkaqarsiva" 
	c.	and not from vice
		oujde; ejn dovlw/  
	d.	also not by treachery
		ajlla; kaqw;" dedokimavsmeqa uJpo; tou' qeou' 
2:4	a.	but as we have been approved by God
		pisteuqh'nai to; eujaggevlion 
	b.	to be entrusted with the gospel
		ou{tw" lalou'men  
	c.	so we speak
		oujc wJ" ajnqrwvpoi" ajrevskonte" 
	d.	not so as to be pleasing people
		ajlla; qew'/ tw'/ dokimavzonti ta;" kardiva" hJmw'n 
	e.	but God  the One testing our inner beings
		ou[te gavr pote ejn lovgw/ kolakeiva" ejgenhvqhmen    
2:5	a.	for not ever we behaved with speech of flattering
		kaqw;" oi[date 
	b.	just as you know
		ou[te ejn profavsei pleonexiva"   
	c.	nor with (an) excuse of greed
		qeo;" mavrtu" 
	d.	God (is) witness
		ou[te zhtou'nte" ejx ajnqrwvpwn dovxan  
2:6	a.	nor seeking praise from people
		ou[te ajf! uJmw'n ou[te ajp! a[llwn  
	b.	not from you and not from others
		dunavmenoi ejn bavrei ei\nai wJ" Cristou' ajpovstoloi    
2:7	a.	being able to make demands as apostles of Christ
		ajlla; ejgenhvqhmen nhvpioi ejn mevsw/ uJmw'n 
	b.	but we became small children among you
		wJ" eja;n trofo;" qavlph/ ta; eJauth'" tevkna  
	c.	like when (a) nurse takes care of her children
		ou{tw" oJmeirovmenoi uJmw'n  
2:8	a.	having thus great affection for you
		eujdokou'men metadou'nai uJmi'n 
	b.	we prefer to share with you
		ouj movnon to; eujaggevlion tou' qeou' 
	c.	not only the gospel of God
		ajlla; kai; ta;" eJautw'n yucav" 
	d.	but also our own lives
		diovti ajgaphtoi; hJmi'n ejgenhvqhte 
	e.	because you became dear ones to us
		mnhmoneuvete gavr ajdelfoiv 
2:9	a.	you in fact remember fellow believers
		to;n kovpon hJmw'n kai; to;n movcqon 
	b.	our hard work and toil
		nukto;" kai; hJmevra" ejrgazovmenoi 
	c.	labouring night and day
		pro;" to; mh; ejpibarh'sai tina uJmw'n 
	d.	in order not to be any financial burden to you
		ejkhruvxamen eij" uJma'" to; eujaggevlion tou' qeou' 
	e.	we preached to you the gospel of God
		uJmei'" mavrture" kai; oJ qeov" 
2:10	a.	you (are) witnesses and also God
		wJ" oJsivw" kai; dikaivw" kai; ajmevmptw" uJmi'n toi'" pisteuvousin   
	b.	how pure and just and blamelessly we behaved towards you the   
		ejgenhvqhmen  
		ones believing
		kaqavper oi[date 
2:11	a.	just as you know
		wJ" e{na e{kaston uJmw'n wJ" path;r tevkna eJautou' 
	b.	how each one of you as (a) father (treats) his children
		parakalou'nte" uJma'" 
2:12	a.	earnestly requesting you
		kai; paramuqouvmenoi 
	b.	and consoling (you)
		kai; marturovmenoi 
	c.	and insisting
		eij" to; peripatei'n uJma'" ajxivw" tou' qeou' 
	d.	so that you behave worthy of God
		tou' kalou'nto" uJma'" eij" th;n eJautou' basileivan kai; dovxan  
	e.	the One calling you into His Kingdom and glory
		kai; dia; tou'to kai; hJmei'" eujcaristou'men tw'/ qew'/ ajdialeivptw"  
2:13	a.	now because of this also we give thanks to God continuously
		o{ti paralabovnte" lovgon ajkoh'" par! hJmw'n tou' qeou' 
	b.	for having received (the) word of God (as) message from us
		ejdevxasqe ouj lovgon ajnqrwvpwn    
	c.	you accepted (it) not (as the) word of people
		ajlla; kaqwv" ejstin ajlhqw'" lovgon qeou'    
	d.	but as it is truly (the) word of God
		o}" kai; ejnergei'tai ejn uJmi'n   
	e.	that also works in you
		toi'" pisteuvousin   
	f.	the ones believing
		uJmei'" ga;r mimhtai; ejgenhvqhte ajdelfoiv tw'n ejkklhsiw'n tou'   
2:14	a.	for you fellow believers became imitators of the churches of   
		qeou'  
		God
		tw'n oujsw'n ejn th'/ !Ioudaiva/ ejn Cristw'/ !Ihsou' 
	b.	the ones being in Judea in union with Christ Jesus
		o{ti ta; aujta; ejpavqete kai; uJmei'" uJpo; tw'n ijdivwn sumfuletw'n 
	c.	because also you suffered the same by your own countrymen
		kaqw;" kai; aujtoi; uJpo; tw'n !Ioudaivwn  
	d.	just as also they by the Jews
		tw'n kai; to;n kuvrion ajpokteinavntwn !Ihsou'n kai; tou;" profhvta" 
2:15	a.	the ones having killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets
		kai; hJma'" ejkdiwxavntwn 
	b.	and also having persecuted us
		kai; qew'/ mh; ajreskovntwn  
	c.	indeed not pleasing God
		kai; pa'sin ajnqrwvpoi" ejnantivwn 
	d.	and being hostile to all people
		kwluovntwn hJma'" 
2:16	a.	preventing us
		toi'" e[qnesin lalh'sai  
	b.	to speak to the Gentiles
		i{na swqw'sin  
	c.	so that they may be saved
		eij" to; ajnaplhrw'sai aujtw'n ta;" aJmartiva" pavntote  
	d.	so that (the Jews) complete the number of their sins at all times
		e[fqasen de; ejp! aujtou;" hJ ojrgh; eij" tevlo" 
	e.	and the punishment came completely upon them
		hJmei'" dev ajdelfoiv ajporfanisqevnte" ajf! uJmw'n pro;" kairo;n w{ra" 
2:17	a.	but we fellow believers having been separated from you for a while
		proswvpw/ ouj kardiva/  
	b.	in person not in mind
		perissotevrw" ejspoudavsamen 
	c.	we did our best more eagerly
		to; provswpon uJmw'n ijdei'n 
	d.	to see your face
		ejn pollh'/ ejpiqumiva/ 
	e.	with great desire
		diovti hjqelhvsamen ejlqei'n pro;" uJma'" 
2:18	a.	therefore we wanted to come to you
		ejgw; me;n Pau'lo" kai; a{pax kai; div" 
	b.	I then Paul indeed several times (wanted to come)
		kai; ejnevkoyen hJma'" oJ satana'"    
	c.	yet Satan prevented us
		tiv" ga;r hJmw'n ejlpi;" h] cara; h] stevfano" kauchvsew"   
2:19	a.	for who (is) our reason for hope or joy or symbol of pride
		h] oujci; kai; uJmei'" 
	b.	than not indeed you
		e[mprosqen tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' 
	c.	in the sight of our Lord Jesus
		ejn th'/ aujtou' parousiva/_ 
	d.	at His coming?
		uJmei'" gavr ejste hJ dovxa hJmw'n kai; hJ carav 
2:20	a.	because you are our pride and joy
		dio; mhkevti stevgonte" 
3:1	a.	therefore no longer enduring
		eujdokhvsamen kataleifqh'nai ejn !Aqhvnai" movnoi 
	b.	we preferred to be left behind in Athens alone
		kai; ejpevmyamen Timovqeon to;n ajdelfo;n hJmw'n  
3:2	a.	and so we sent Timothy our fellow believer
		kai; sunergo;n tou' qeou' ejn tw'/ eujaggelivw/ tou' Cristou'  
	b.	and fellow worker of God in the gospel of Christ
		eij" to; sthrivxai uJma'" 
	c.	in order to make you more firm
		kai; parakalevsai uJpe;r th'" pivstew" uJmw'n  
	d.	and to encourage (you) in your faith
		to; mhdevna saivnesqai    
3:3	a.	that no one gives up his beliefs
		ejn tai'" qlivyesin tauvtai" 
	b.	because of these sufferings
		aujtoi; ga;r oi[date o{ti 
	c.	because you yourself know that
		eij" tou'to keivmeqa    
	d.	we exist for this purpose
		kai; ga;r o{te pro;" uJma'" h\men 
3:4	a.	for also when we were with you
		proelevgomen uJmi'n o{ti 
	b.	we told you beforehand that
		mevllomen qlivbesqai 
	c.	we have to suffer hardship
		kaqw;" kai; ejgevneto 
	d.	just as also it happened
		kai; oi[date 
	e.	indeed you know (this)
		dia; tou'to kagw; mhkevti stevgwn 
3:5	a.	because of this also I no longer enduring
		e[pemya eij" to; gnw'nai th;n pivstin uJmw'n   
	b.	I sent in order to find out about your faith
		mhv pw" ejpeivrasen uJma'" oJ peiravzwn 
	c.	lest the one tempting tempted you
		kai; eij" keno;n gevnhtai oJ kovpo" hJmw'n 
	d.	and our hard work came to nothing
