		o{soi eijsi;n uJpo; zugo;n dou'loi  
6:1	a.	as many as are slaves in slavery
		tou;" ijdivou" despovta" pavsh" timh'" ajxivou" hJgeivsqwsan  
	b.	let them regard their own masters worthy of all honour
		i{na mh; to; o[noma tou' qeou' kai; hJ didaskaliva blasfhmh'tai  
	c.	so that the Name of God and His teaching may not be blasphemed
		oiJ de; pistou;" e[conte" despovta"  
6:2	a.	and those having believing masters
		mh; katafroneivtwsan  
	b.	let them not despise (their masters)
		o{ti ajdelfoiv eijsin  
	c.	because they are fellow believers
		ajlla; ma'llon douleuevtwsan  
	d.	but let them rather serve (their masters)
		o{ti pistoiv eijsin  
	e.	because they are believers
		kai; ajgaphtoi;  
	f.	indeed beloved ones
		oiJ th'" eujergesiva" ajntilambanovmenoi  
	g.	those enjoying the benefit of the good deed
		tau'ta divdaske kai; parakavlei  
	h.	teach and urge these things
		ei[ ti" eJterodidaskalei'  
6:3	a.	if someone teaches a different doctrine
		kai; mh; prosevrcetai uJgiaivnousin lovgoi"  
	b.	and does not agree with sound statements
		toi'" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	c.	the ones of our Lord Jesus Christ
		kai; th'/ kat! eujsevbeian didaskaliva/  
	d.	and the teaching according to godliness
		tetuvfwtai  
6:4	a.	he is extremely proud
		mhde;n ejpistavmeno"  
	b.	understanding nothing
		ajlla; nosw'n peri; zhthvsei"  
	c.	but having an unhealthy desire for disputes
		kai; logomaciva"  
	d.	and arguing about words
		ejx w|n givnetai fqovno"  
	e.	from which comes envy
		e[ri"  
	f.	quarrel
		blasfhmivai  
	g.	blasphemy
		uJpovnoiai ponhraiv  
	h.	evil suspicions
		diaparatribai;  
6:5	a.	constant arguings
		diefqarmevnwn ajnqrwvpwn to;n nou'n 
	b.	of persons depraved in the mind
		kai; ajpesterhmevnwn th'" ajlhqeiva"  
	c.	and deprived of the truth
		nomizovntwn  
	d.	thinking
		porismo;n ei\nai th;n eujsevbeian  
	e.	that religion is (a) means of gaining wealth
		e[stin de; porismo;" mevga"  
6:6	a.	but (a) great gain of wealth is
		hJ eujsevbeia meta; aujtarkeiva"  
	b.	godliness with contentment
		oujde;n ga;r eijshnevgkamen eij" to;n kovsmon  
6:7	a.	because we brought nothing into the world
		o{ti oujde; ejxenegkei'n ti dunavmeqa  
	b.	for we can not even take out anything
		e[conte" de; diatrofa;" kai; skepavsmata  
6:8	a.	but having food and clothing
		touvtoi" ajrkesqhsovmeqa  
	b.	with these we will be content
		oiJ de; boulovmenoi ploutei'n  
6:9	a.	but those desiring to be rich
		ejmpivptousin eij" peirasmo;n kai; pagivda   
	b.	are beset by temptation and danger
		kai; ejpiqumiva" polla;" ajnohvtou" kai; blaberav"  
	c.	and (by) many foolish and harmful lusts
		ai{tine" buqivzousin tou;" ajnqrwvpou"  
	d.	that cause people
		eij" o[leqron kai; ajpwvleian  
	e.	as a result ruin and destruction
		rJivza ga;r pavntwn tw'n kakw'n ejstin hJ filarguriva  
6:10	a.	because (the) cause of all evil is the love of money
		h|" tine" ojregovmenoi  
	b.	which some striving to attain
		ajpeplanhvqhsan ajpo; th'" pivstew"  
	c.	went astray from the faith
		kai; eJautou;" perievpeiran ojduvnai" pollai'"  
	d.	and they experienced for themselves great intense anxiety
		su; dev w\ a[nqrwpe qeou'  
6:11	a.	but you o man of God
		tau'ta feu'ge  
	b.	avoid these things
		divwke de; dikaiosuvnhn eujsevbeian  
	c.	and pursue righteousness godliness
		pivstin ajgavphn  
	d.	faith love
		uJpomonh;n prau>paqivan  
	e.	endurance gentleness
		ajgwnivzou to;n kalo;n ajgw'na th'" pivstew"  
6:12	a.	fight the good struggle of the faith
		ejpilabou' th'" aijwnivou zwh'"  
	b.	take hold of eternal life
		eij" h}n ejklhvqh"  
	c.	to which you were called
		kai; wJmolovghsa" th;n kalh;n oJmologivan  
	d.	and you confessed the good confession
		ejnwvpion pollw'n martuvrwn  
	e.	in front of many witnesses
		paraggevllw »soi¼ ejnwvpion tou' qeou'  
6:13	a.	I command [you] before God
		tou' zw/ogonou'nto" ta; pavnta  
	b.	the One giving life to everything
		kai; Cristou' !Ihsou'  
	c.	and (before) Christ Jesus
		tou' marturhvsanto" ejpi; Pontivou Pilavtou th;n kalh;n oJmologivan  
	d.	the One having witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate
		thrh'sai se th;n ejntolh;n a[spilon ajnepivlhmpton   
6:14	a.	that you keep the command pure beyond reproach
		mevcri th'" ejpifaneiva" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	b.	until the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ
		h}n kairoi'" ijdivoi" deivxei oJ makavrio" kai; movno"    
6:15	a.	that in His own times He will make known (He is) the blessed and    
		dunavsth"   
		only Ruler
		oJ basileu;" tw'n basileuovntwn  
	b.	the King of the kings
		kai; kuvrio" tw'n kurieuovntwn  
	c.	and Lord of the lords
		oJ movno" e[cwn ajqanasivan  
6:16	a.	the only One having immortality
		fw'" oijkw'n ajprovsiton  
	b.	dwelling in unapproachable light
		o}n ei\den oujdei;" ajnqrwvpwn  
	c.	Whom no one of people saw
		oujde; ijdei'n duvnatai   
	d.	and not can see
		w|/ timh; kai; kravto" aijwvnion 
	e.	to Whom be honour and everlasting power
		ajmhvn  
	f.	amen
		toi'" plousivoi" ejn tw'/ nu'n aijw'ni  
6:17	a.	to those (being) rich in the present age
		paravggelle mh; uJyhlofronei'n  
	b.	command (them) not to be arrogant
		mhde; hjlpikevnai ejpi; plouvtou ajdhlovthti  
	c.	and not to put hope in (the) uncertainty of wealth
		ajll! ejpi; qew'/  
	d.	but in God
		tw'/ parevconti hJmi'n pavnta plousivw"  
	e.	the One giving us everything richly
		eij" ajpovlausin  
	f.	for enjoyment
		ajgaqoergei'n  
6:18	a.	to do good
		ploutei'n ejn e[rgoi" kaloi'"  
	b.	to be generous in good deeds
		eujmetadovtou" ei\nai   
	c.	to be generous in sharing
		koinwnikouv"    
	d.	ready to share
		ajpoqhsaurivzonta" eJautoi'" qemevlion kalo;n eij" to; mevllon   
6:19	a.	treasuring up for themselves (a) good basis for the future
		i{na ejpilavbwntai th'" o[ntw" zwh'"  
	b.	so that they may experience the real life
		w\ Timovqee th;n paraqhvkhn fuvlaxon   
6:20	a.	o Timothy guard closely what is entrusted (to you)
		ejktrepovmeno" ta;" bebhvlou" kenofwniva"  
	b.	avoiding the worldly foolish talk
		kai; ajntiqevsei" th'" yeudwnuvmou gnwvsew"  
	c.	and (the) contradictions of the falsely called knowledge
		h{n tine" ejpaggellovmenoi   
6:21	a.	that some are professing
		peri; th;n pivstin hjstovchsan  
	b.	have lost their way concerning the faith
		hJ cavri" meq! uJmw'n  
6:21	c.	grace (be) with you
