		cwrhvsate hJma'"  
7:2	a.	be friendly to us
		oujdevna hjdikhvsamen  
	b.	we have mistreated no one
		oujdevna ejfqeivramen  
	c.	we have ruined no one
		oujdevna ejpleonekthvsamen  
	d.	we have taken advantage of no one
		pro;" katavkrisin ouj levgw   
7:3	a.	I do not speak for the purpose of condemnation
		proeivrhka ga;r o{ti  
	b.	because I said before that
		ejn tai'" kardivai" hJmw'n ejste  
	c.	you are in our minds
		eij" to; sunapoqanei'n  
	d.	to die together
		kai; suzh'n  
	e.	and to live together
		pollhv moi parrhsiva pro;" uJma'"  
7:4	a.	for me (there is) much confidence with regard to you
		pollhv moi kauvchsi" uJpe;r uJmw'n  
	b.	for me (there is) much pride about you
		peplhvrwmai th'/ paraklhvsei   
	c.	I am filled with encouragement
		uJperperisseuvomai th'/ cara'/ ejpi; pavsh/ th'/ qlivyei hJmw'n  
	d.	I exceed with joy during all our suffering
		kai; ga;r ejlqovntwn hJmw'n eij" Makedonivan  
7:5	a.	for also when we have come to Macedonia
		oujdemivan e[schken a[nesin hJ sa;rx hJmw'n  
	b.	our physical being had no relief at all
		ajll! ejn panti; qlibovmenoi  
	c.	indeed suffering hardship in everything
		e[xwqen mavcai  
	d.	severe clashes from outside
		e[swqen fovboi  
	e.	fears from inside
		ajll! oJ parakalw'n tou;" tapeinou;"  
7:6	a.	but the One encouraging the downhearted
		parekavlesen hJma'" oJ qeo;" ejn th'/ parousiva/ Tivtou  
	b.	God encouraged us by the presence of Titus
		ouj movnon de; ejn th'/ parousia/ aujtou'  
7:7	a.	and not only by his presence
		ajlla; kai; ejn th'/ paraklhvsei  
	b.	but also by his encouragement
		h|/ pareklhvqh ejf! uJmi'n  
	c.	by which he was encouraged by you
		ajnaggevllwn hJmi'n th;n uJmw'n ejpipovqhsin  
	d.	telling us your deep desire
		to;n uJmw'n ojdurmovn  
	e.	your lamenting
		to;n uJmw'n zh'lon uJpe;r ejmou'  
	f.	your earnest concern for me
		w{ste me ma'llon carh'nai   
	g.	so that I am made more glad
		o{ti eij kai; ejluvphsa uJma'" ejn th'/ ejpistolh'/  
7:8	a.	for also if I saddened you by my letter
		ouj metamevlomai  
	b.	I do not regret
		eij kai; metemelovmhn  
	c.	if in fact I did regret
		blevpw »ga;r¼ o{ti hJ ejpistolh; ejkeivnh   
	d.	[because] I understand that that letter
		eij kai; pro;" w{ran  
	e.	even if for a while
		ejluvphsen uJma'"  
	f.	made you sad
		nu'n caivrw  
7:9	a.	now I rejoice
		oujc o{ti ejluphvqhte   
	b.	not because you were sad
		ajll! o{ti ejluphvqhte eij" metavnoian   
	c.	but because you were sad resulting in repentance
		ejluphvqhte ga;r kata; qeovn   
	d.	because you were sad in accordance with God
		i{na ejn mhdeni; zhmiwqh'te ejx hJmw'n   
	e.	so that in nothing you suffered loss because of us
		hJ ga;r kata; qeo;n luvph  
7:10	a.	because the sadness in accordance with God
		metavnoian eij" swthrivan ajmetamevlhton ejrgavzetai   
	b.	brings about repentance resulting in salvation without regret
		hJ de; tou' kovsmou luvph qavnaton katergavzetai  
	c.	but the sadness of the world system results in death
		ijdou; ga;r aujto; tou'to  
7:11	a.	indeed pay attention to this itself
		to; kata; qeo;n luphqh'nai  
	b.	namely to be saddened in accordance with God
		povshn kateirgavsato uJmi'n spoudhvn  
	c.	how much eagerness did it result in for you
		ajlla; ajpologivan  
	d.	such proving of your innocence
		ajlla; ajganavkthsin  
	e.	such indignation
		ajlla; fovbon  
	f.	such reverence
		ajlla; ejpipovqhsin  
	g.	such deep desire
		ajlla; zh'lon  
	h.	such earnest concern
		ajlla; ejkdivkhsin  
	i.	such giving of justice
		ejn panti; sunesthvsate eJautou;"  
	j.	in everything you have demonstrated yourself
		aJgnou;" ei\nai tw'/ pravgmati  
	k.	to be pure in undertaking
		a[ra eij kai; e[graya uJmi'n  
7:12	a.	so since indeed I wrote to you
		oujc e{neken tou' ajdikhvsanto"  
	b.	not on account of having done wrong
		oujde; e{neken tou' ajdikhqevnto"  
	c.	and not on account of acting unjustly
		ajll! e{neken tou' fanerwqh'nai th;n spoudh;n uJmw'n th;n uJpe;r hJmw'n  
	d.	but on account of your eagerness on behalf of us to be revealed
		pro;" uJma'" ejnwvpion tou' qeou'  
	e.	with regard to you in the judgment of God
		dia; tou'to parakeklhvmeqa  
7:13	a.	because of this we have been encouraged
		ejpi; de; th'/ paraklhvsei hJmw'n  
7:13	b.	and with respect to our encouragement
		perissotevrw" ma'llon ejcavrhmen   
	c.	we rejoiced much more
		ejpi; th'/ cara'/ Tivtou  
	d.	with respect to the joy of Titus
		o{ti ajnapevpautai to; pneu'ma aujtou' ajpo; pavntwn uJmw'n   
	e.	because his inner being was refreshed by all of you
		o{ti ei[ ti aujtw'/ uJpe;r uJmw'n kekauvchmai  
7:14	a.	because if I have boasted something to him about you
		ouj kath/scuvnqhn  
	b.	I was not put to shame
		ajll! wJ" pavnta ejn ajlhqeiva/ ejlalhvsamen uJmi'n  
	c.	but just as I spoke everything to you in truth
		ou{tw" kai; hJ kauvchsi" hJmw'n hJ ejpi; Tivtou   
	d.	likewise also our boasting to Titus
		ajlhvqeia ejgenhvqh  
	e.	happened to be truth
		kai; ta; splavgcna aujtou' perissotevrw" eij" uJma'" ejstin   
7:15	a.	and his compassion for you is exceptional
		ajnamimnh/skomevnou th;n pavntwn uJmw'n uJpakohvn  
	b.	as he is remembering the obedience of all of you
		wJ" meta; fovbou kai; trovmou ejdevxasqe aujtovn  
	c.	how you received him with fear and trembling
		caivrw o{ti  
7:16	a.	I rejoice that
		ejn panti; qarrw' ejn uJmi'n  
	b.	in everything I have courage with regard to you
