		aujto;" de; ejgw; Pau'lo" parakalw' uJma'"  
10:1	a.	now I Paul myself ask you earnestly
		dia; th'" prau?thto" kai; ejpieikeiva" tou' Cristou'  
	b.	on account of the meekness and gentleness of Christ
		o}" kata; provswpon me;n tapeino;" ejn uJmi'n  
	c.	(I) the one who in person on the one hand (is) gentle among you
		ajpw;n de; qarrw' eij" uJma'"  
	d.	on the other hand being absent I am bold among you
		devomai de; to; mh; parw;n qarrh'sai th'/  pepoiqhvsei    
10:2	a.	I then plead that not being present to be bold in confidence
		h|/ logivzomai tolmh'sai ejpiv tina"    
	b.	by which I think to dare against some
		tou;" logizomevnou" hJma'"   
	c.	those thinking about us
		wJ" kata; savrka peripatou'nta"   
	d.	that we live according to (the) physical nature
		ejn sarki; ga;r peripatou'nte"   
10:3	a.	for while living in (the) physical nature
		ouj kata; savrka strateuovmeqa   
	b.	we do not engage in war according to (the) physical nature
		ta; ga;r o{pla th'" strateiva" hJmw'n ouj sarkika;  
10:4	a.	for the weapons of our warfare (are) not natural
		ajlla; dunata; tw'/ qew'/  
	b.	but powerful for God
		pro;" kaqaivresin ojcurwmavtwn  
	c.	for tearing down fortresses
		logismou;" kaqairou'nte"  
	d.	destroying false reasonings
		kai; pa'n u{ywma ejpairovmenon kata; th'" gnwvsew" tou' qeou'  
10:5	a.	indeed every arrogance rising up against the knowledge of God
		kai; aijcmalwtivzonte" pa'n novhma  
	b.	and taking control of every thought
		eij" th;n uJpakoh;n tou' Cristou'  
	c.	for the purpose of obedience to Christ
		kai; ejn eJtoivmw/ e[conte"  
10:6	a.	and being in a state of readiness
		ejkdikh'sai pa'san parakohvn  
	b.	to punish every disobedience
		o{tan plhrwqh'/ uJmw'n hJ uJpakohv  
	c.	when your obedience is made complete
		ta; kata; provswpon blevpete   
10:7	a.	you look at outward appearances
		ei[ ti" pevpoiqen eJautw'/ Cristou' ei\nai  
	b.	if someone is convinced in himself to be of Christ
		tou'to logizevsqw pavlin ejf! eJautou' o{ti  
	c.	let this one consider again concerning himself that
		kaqw;" aujto;" Cristou'  
	d.	just as (he) himself (is) of Christ
		ou{tw" kai; hJmei'"  
	e.	likewise also we (are)
		ejavn »te¼ ga;r perissovteron ti kauchvswmai  
10:8	a.	[and] if indeed I would boast about something excessive
		peri; th'" ejxousiva" hJmw'n  
	b.	about our authority
		h|" e[dwken oJ kuvrio" eij" oijkodomh;n  
	c.	which the Lord gave for building up
		kai; oujk eij" kaqaivresin uJmw'n  
	d.	and not for tearing you down
		oujk aijscunqhvsomai   
	e.	I will not be shamed
		i{na mh; dovxw  
10:9	a.	so that I may not seem
		wJ" a]n ejkfobei'n uJma'" dia; tw'n ejpistolw'n  
	b.	as if (I) would terrify you through my letters
		o{ti aiJ ejpistolai; mevn fhsivn barei'ai kai;   ijscuraiv     
10:10	a.	(some say) that on the one hand the letters imply (to be) fierce and severe
		hJ de; parousiva tou' swvmato" ajsqenh;"    
	b.	but on the other hand the presence of the person (is) weak
		kai; oJ lovgo" ejxouqenhmevno"  
	c.	and the message is despising
		tou'to logizevsqw oJ toiou'to" o{ti   
10:11	a.	let such one consider this that
		oi|oi ejsmen tw'/ lovgw/ di! ejpistolw'n ajpovnte"  
	b.	just like we are by word through letters being absent
		toiou'toi kai; parovnte" tw'/ e[rgw/   
	c.	like that (we are) also by deed being present
		ouj ga;r tolmw'men ejgkri'nai   
10:12	a.	because we would not dare to classify
		h] sugkri'nai eJautouv" tisin  
	b.	or to compare ourselves to some
		tw'n eJautou;" sunistanovntwn  
	c.	of those recommending themselves
		ajlla; aujtoi; ejn eJautoi'" eJautou;" metrou'nte"   
	d.	but they measuring themselves by themselves
		kai; sugkrivnonte" eJautou;" eJautoi'"  
	e.	and comparing themselves by themselves
		ouj sunia'sin  
	f.	they do not understand
		hJmei'" de; oujk eij" ta; a[metra kauchsovmeqa   
10:13	a.	but we will not boast beyond measure
		ajlla; kata; to; mevtron tou' kanovno"  
	b.	but according to the measure of the rule
		ou| ejmevrisen hJmi'n oJ qeo;" mevtrou  
	c.	of which God has apportioned to us (a) measure
		ejfikevsqai a[cri kai; uJmw'n  
	d.	to reach as far as also you
		ouj ga;r wJ" mh; ejfiknouvmenoi eij" uJma'"  
10:14	a.	for not as having not come to you
		uJperekteivnomen eJautouv"  
	b.	we overextended ourselves
		a[cri ga;r kai; uJmw'n ejfqavsamen ejn tw'/ eujaggelivw/ tou' Cristou'  
	c.	because we came also to you for the sake of the gospel of Christ
		oujk eij" ta; a[metra kaucwvmenoi ejn ajllotrivoi" kovpoi"   
10:15	a.	not boasting beyond measure about another's labours
		ejlpivda de; e[conte"  
	b.	but having hope
		aujxanomevnh" th'" pivstew" uJmw'n   
	c.	while causing your faith to increase
		ejn uJmi'n megalunqh'nai  
	d.	to be held in high honour among you
		kata; to;n kanovna hJmw'n eij" perisseivan   
	e.	in accordance with our rule for abundance
		eij" ta; uJperevkeina uJmw'n eujaggelivsasqai   
10:16	a.	to preach the gospel in the (areas) beyond you
		oujk ejn ajllotrivw/ kanovni eij" ta; e{toima   kauchvsasqai
	b.	not to have boasted about another's area (that has already) been prepared
		oJ de; kaucwvmeno" ejn kurivw/ kaucavsqw  
10:17	a.	now let the one boasting boast about (the) Lord
		ouj ga;r oJ eJauto;n sunistavnwn   
10:18	a.	because not the one commending himself
		ejkei'no" ejstin dovkimo"  
	b.	that one is regarded as worthy
		ajlla; o}n oJ kuvrio" sunivsthsin  
	c.	but whom the Lord recommends
