		trivton tou'to e[rcomai pro;" uJma'"  
13:1	a.	this third (time) I am coming to you
		ejpi; stovmato" duvo martuvrwn kai; triw'n  
	b.	by (the) speaking of two and even three witnesses
		staqhvsetai pa'n rJh'ma  
	c.	every statement will be put into force
		proeivrhka kai; prolevgw   
13:2	a.	I have said already and I say before
		wJ" parw;n to; deuvteron   
	b.	like being present the second (time)
		kai; ajpw;n nu'n  
	c.	indeed being absent now
		toi'" prohmarthkovsin kai; toi'" loipoi'" pa'sin o{ti  
	d.	to those and all the rest having sinned in the past that
		eja;n e[lqw eij" to; pavlin  
	e.	when I come again
		ouj feivsomai  
	f.	I will not spare
		ejpei; dokimh;n zhtei'te tou' ejn ejmoi; lalou'nto" Cristou'  
13:3	a.	because you seek evidence of Christ speaking through me
		o}" eij" uJma'" oujk ajsqenei'  
	b.	He who is not weak concerning you
		ajlla; dunatei' ejn uJmi'n  
	c.	but He is able concerning you
		kai; ga;r ejstaurwvqh ejx ajsqeneiva"  
13:4	a.	for indeed He was crucified out of weakness
		ajlla; zh'/ ejk dunavmew" qeou'  
	b.	but He lives by means of (the) power of God
		kai; ga;r hJmei'" ajsqenou'men ejn aujtw'/  
	c.	indeed also we are weak in union with Him
		ajlla; zhvsomen su;n aujtw'/   
	d.	but we will live with Him
		ejk dunavmew" qeou' eij" uJma'"  
	e.	by means of (the) power of God on behalf of you
		eJautou;" peiravzete  
13:5	a.	examine yourselves
		eij ejste; ejn th'/ pivstei  
	b.	if you really are in the faith
		eJautou;" dokimavzete  
	c.	examine yourselves
		h] oujk ejpiginwvskete eJautou;" o{ti  
	d.	or do you not recognise yourselves that
		!Ihsou'" Cristo;" ejn uJmi'n_   
	e.	Jesus Christ (is) in you?
		eij mhvti ajdovkimoi ejste   
	f.	unless if indeed you are worthless
		ejlpivzw de; o{ti  
13:6	a.	further I hope that
		gnwvsesqe o{ti  
	b.	you know that
		hJmei'" oujk ejsme;n ajdovkimoi  
	c.	we are not worthless
		eujcovmeqa de; pro;" to;n qeo;n  
13:7	a.	also then we are praying to God
		mh; poih'sai uJma'" kako;n mhdevn  
	b.	that you do not commit evil at all
		oujc i{na hJmei'" dovkimoi fanw'men  
	c.	not that we may seem to be regarded as worthy
		ajll! i{na uJmei'" to; kalo;n poih'te  
	d.	but that you may do the good thing
		hJmei'" de; wJ" ajdovkimoi w\men  
	e.	though we may be like bad ones
		ouj ga;r dunavmeqa ti kata; th'" ajlhqeiva"  
13:8	a.	for we can not (do) anything against the truth
		ajlla; uJpe;r th'" ajlhqeiva"  
	b.	but for the sake of the truth
		caivromen ga;r o{tan hJmei'" ajsqenw'men  
13:9	a.	in fact we rejoice when we may be weak
		uJmei'" de; dunatoi; h\te  
	b.	but you may be powerful
		tou'to kai; eujcovmeqa  
	c.	this indeed we pray
		th;n uJmw'n katavrtisin  
	d.	namely your adequacy
		dia; tou'to tau'ta ajpw;n gravfw  
13:10	a.	because of this I write these things being absent
		i{na parw;n  
	b.	so that being present
		mh; ajpotovmw" crhvswmai   
	c.	I will not behave harshly
		kata; th;n ejxousivan  
	d.	according to my authority
		h}n oJ kuvrio" e[dwken moi eij" oijkodomh;n   
	e.	that the Lord gave to me for building up
		kai; oujk eij" kaqaivresin  
	f.	and not for tearing down
		loipovn ajdelfoiv caivrete  
13:11	a.	what remains fellow believers be greeted
		katartivzesqe parakalei'sqe  
	b.	be made adequate be encouraged
		to; aujto; fronei'te eijrhneuvete  
	c.	have the same attitude live in peace
		kai; oJ qeo;" th'" ajgavph" kai; eijrhvnh" e[stai meq! uJmw'n  
	d.	surely the God of love and peace will be with you
		ajspavsasqe ajllhvlou" ejn aJgivw/ filhvmati  
13:12	a.	greet each other with (a) holy kiss
		ajspavzontai uJma'" oiJ a{gioi pavnte"  
	b.	all God's people greet you
		hJ cavri" tou' kurivou !Ihsou' Cristou'   
13:13	a.	the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ
		kai; hJ ajgavph tou' qeou'  
	b.	and the love of God
		kai; hJ koinwniva tou' aJgivou pneuvmato"  
	c.	and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit
		meta; pavntwn uJmw'n  
	d.	(be) with you all
