		Sumew;n Pevtro" dou'lo" kai; ajpovstolo" !Ihsou' Cristou'   
1:1	a.	Simeon Peter (a) slave and apostle of Jesus Christ
		toi'" ijsovtimon hJmi'n lacou'sin pivstin 
	b.	to those having received (a) faith equal to ours
		ejn dikaiosuvnh/ tou' qeou' hJmw'n kai; swth'ro" !Ihsou' Cristou'   
	c.	by means of (the) justification of our God and Saviour Jesus Christ
		cavri" uJmi'n kai; eijrhvnh plhqunqeivh 
1:2	a.	may grace to you and peace be increased greatly
		ejn ejpignwvsei tou' qeou' kai; !Ihsou' tou' kurivou hJmw'n 
	b.	through knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord
		wJ" pavnta hJmi'n th'" qeiva" dunavmew" aujtou'  
1:3	a.	how great (is) everything (given) to us from His divine power
		ta; pro;" zwh;n kai; eujsevbeian dedwrhmevnh" 
	b.	the things having been given for life and piety
		dia; th'" ejpignwvsew" tou' kalevsanto" hJma'" 
	c.	through the knowledge of the One having called us
		ijdiva/ dovxh/ kai; ajreth'/  
	d.	by His own amazing might and powerful deed
		di! w|n ta; tivmia kai; mevgista hJmi'n ejpaggevlmata dedwvrhtai 
1:4	a.	by which the precious and very important promises were given to us
		i{na dia; touvtwn gevnhsqe qeiva" koinwnoi; fuvsew" 
	b.	so that by these things you may become partners of divine nature
		ajpofugovnte" th'" ejn tw'/ kovsmw/ ejn ejpiqumiva/ fqora'" 
	c.	having escaped the corruption in the world due to evil desires
		kai; aujto; tou'to de; spoudh;n pa'san pareisenevgkante"  
1:5	a.	and for this very (reason) now having done your best
		ejpicorhghvsate ejn th'/ pivstei uJmw'n th;n ajrethvn 
	b.	add virtue to your faith
		ejn de; th'/ ajreth'/ th;n gnw'sin 
	c.	and to virtue (add) knowledge
		ejn de; th'/ gnwvsei th;n ejgkravteian 
1:6	a.	and to knowledge (add) self-control
		ejn de; th'/ ejgkrateiva/ th;n uJpomonhvn 
	b.	and to self-control (add) endurance
		ejn de; th'/ uJpomonh'/ th;n eujsevbeian  
	c.	and to endurance (add) godliness
		ejn de; th'/ eujsebeiva/ th;n filadelfivan  
1:7	a.	and to godliness (add) love for fellow believers
		ejn de; th'/ filadelfiva/ th;n ajgavphn  
	b.	and to love for fellow believers (add) loving concern
		tau'ta ga;r uJmi'n uJpavrconta 
1:8	a.	indeed these things being with you
		kai; pleonavzonta  
	b.	and having in abundance
		oujk ajrgou;" oujde; ajkavrpou" kaqivsthsin  
	c.	it causes (you) not to be useless and not unproductive
		eij" th;n tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou' ejpivgnwsin   
	d.	with respect to the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ
		w|/ ga;r mh; pavrestin tau'ta  
1:9	a.	because to whom these things are not present
		tuflov" ejstin  
	b.	he is blind
		muwpavzwn   
	c.	being short-sighted
		lhvqhn labw;n tou' kaqarismou' tw'n pavlai aujtou' aJmartiw'n 
	d.	having experienced forgetting of the cleansing of his long ago sins
		dio; ma'llon ajdelfoiv spoudavsate   
1:10	a.	therefore more fellow believers do your best
		bebaivan uJmw'n th;n klh'sin kai; ejklogh;n poiei'sqai  
	b.	to make your calling and choosing certain
		tau'ta ga;r poiou'nte" 
	c.	because doing this
		ouj mh; ptaivshte pote 
	d.	you will by no means ever sin
		ou{tw" ga;r plousivw" ejpicorhghqhvsetai uJmi'n hJ ei[sodo"     
1:11	a.	because in this way there will be richly provided for you the arrival
		eij" th;n aijwvnion basileivan tou' kurivou hJmw'n kai; swth'ro" !Ihsou'   
	b.	into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus   
		Cristou'  
		Christ
		dio; mellhvsw ajei; uJma'" uJpomimnhv/skein peri; touvtwn  
1:12	a.	therefore I must always remind you about these things
		kaivper eijdovta" 
	b.	although (I remind the) ones knowing
		kai; ejsthrigmevnou" ejn th'/ parouvsh/ ajlhqeiva/  
	c.	indeed those established in the present truth
		divkaion de; hJgou'mai 
1:13	a.	further I regard (it) proper
		ejf! o{son eijmi; ejn touvtw/ tw'/ skhnwvmati 
	b.	for as long as I am in this body
		diegeivrein uJma'" ejn uJpomnhvsei    
	c.	to stir you up by reminding (you)
		eijdw;" o{ti tacinhv ejstin hJ ajpovqesi" tou' skhnwvmato" mou 
1:14	a.	knowing that the time of my death is very soon
		kaqw;" kai; oJ kuvrio" hJmw'n !Ihsou'" Cristo;" ejdhvlwsen moi 
	b.	just as also our Lord Jesus Christ made (it) known to me
		spoudavsw de; kai; eJkavstote  
1:15	a.	and also I will always do my best
		e[cein uJma'" meta; th;n ejmh;n e[xodon 
	b.	that you be able after my death
		th;n touvtwn mnhvmhn poiei'sqai 
	c.	to do remembrance of these things
		ouj ga;r sesofismevnoi" muvqoi" ejxakolouqhvsante"  
1:16	a.	because not having imitated cleverly contrived myths
		ejgnwrivsamen uJmi'n th;n tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou' duvnamin  
	b.	we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus  
		kai; parousivan 
		Christ
		ajll! ejpovptai genhqevnte" th'" ejkeivnou megaleiovthto" 
	c.	certainly having become eyewitnessess of His great power
		labw;n ga;r para; qeou' patro;" timh;n kai; dovxan 
1:17	a.	yes having received from God (the) Father honour and glory
		fwnh'" ejnecqeivsh" aujtw'/ toia'sde 
	b.	(a) special voice having been experienced by Him
		uJpo; th'" megaloprepou'" dovxh"   
	c.	from the Majestic Glory
		oJ uiJov" mou oJ ajgaphtov" mou ou|to" ejstin 
	d.	this One is My Son My Beloved
		eij" o}n ejgw; eujdovkhsa 
	e.	in Whom I took delight
		kai; tauvthn th;n fwnh;n hJmei'" hjkouvsamen 
1:18	a.	indeed we heard this voice
		ejx oujranou' ejnecqei'san 
	b.	brought from heaven
		su;n aujtw'/ o[nte" ejn tw'/ aJgivw/ o[rei 
	c.	being with Him on the holy mountain
		kai; e[comen bebaiovteron to;n profhtiko;n lovgon    
1:19	a.	further we have (as) more trustworthy the prophetic message
		w|/ kalw'" poiei'te    
	b.	to which you do well
		prosevconte" wJ" luvcnw/ faivnonti ejn aujcmhrw'/ tovpw/  
	c.	paying attention like to (a) lamp shining in (a) gloomy place
		e{w" ou| hJmevra diaugavsh/   
	d.	until (the) day dawns
		kai; fwsfovro" ajnateivlh/ ejn tai'" kardivai" uJmw'n  
	e.	and (the) morning star rises in your inner selves
		tou'to prw'ton ginwvskonte" o{ti 
1:20	a.	knowing this first that
		pa'sa profhteiva grafh'" ijdiva" ejpiluvsew" ouj givnetai  
	b.	every prophecy of Scripture is not of own explanation
		ouj ga;r qelhvmati ajnqrwvpou hjnevcqh profhteiva potev  
1:21	a.	for no prophecy was ever brought about by (the) will of (a) person
		ajlla; uJpo; pneuvmato" aJgivou ferovmenoi 
	b.	but being guided by (the) Holy Spirit
		ejlavlhsan ajpo; qeou' a[nqrwpoi 
	c.	people spoke from God
