		ejgevnonto de; kai; yeudoprofh'tai ejn tw'/ law'/   
2:1	a.	but also false prophets came to be among the people
		wJ" kai; ejn uJmi'n e[sontai yeudodidavskaloi 
	b.	as also there will be among you false teachers
		oi{tine" pareisavxousin aiJrevsei" ajpwleiva"  
	c.	who will cause divisions of destruction
		kai; to;n ajgoravsanta aujtou;" despovthn ajrnouvmenoi 
	d.	indeed denying the Lord having redeemed them
		ejpavgonte" eJautoi'" tacinh;n ajpwvleian 
	e.	bringing upon themselves (a) swift destruction
		kai; polloi; ejxakolouqhvsousin aujtw'n tai'" ajselgeivai" 
2:2	a.	further many will imitate their extreme immorality
		di! ou}" hJ oJdo;" th'" ajlhqeiva" blasfhmhqhvsetai   
	b.	because of them the Way of the truth will be blasphemed
		kai; ejn pleonexiva/ plastoi'" lovgoi" uJma'" ejmporeuvsontai 
2:3	a.	yes in greed they will exploit you by false statements
		oi|" to; krivma e[k palai oujk ajrgei'  
	b.	for whom the condemnation from long ago is not idle
		kai; hJ ajpwvleia aujtw'n ouj nustavzei 
	c.	and their destruction does not grow drowsy
		eij ga;r oJ qeo;" ajggevlwn aJmarthsavntwn oujk ejfeivsato 
2:4	a.	for if God did not spare angels having sinned
		ajlla; seirai'" zovfou tartarwvsa" 
	b.	but with chains of darkness having cast into hell
		parevdwken eij" krivsin throumevnou"  
	c.	He handed over for punishment those being guarded
		kai; ajrcaivou kovsmou oujk ejfeivsato  
2:5	a.	surely He did not spare (the) ancient world
		ajlla; o[gdoon Nw'e dikaiosuvnh" khvruka ejfuvlaxen  
	b.	but he watched over Noah (the) eighth preacher of righteousness
		kataklusmo;n kovsmw/ ajsebw'n ejpavxa" 
	c.	having caused (a) flood for (a) world of ungodly people
		kai; povlei" Sodovmwn kai; Gomovrra" tefrwvsa" 
2:6	a.	also having reduced to ashes (the) cities of Sodom and Gemorrah
		»katastrofh'/¼ katevkrinen 
	b.	He condemned (them) [with destruction]
		uJpovdeigma mellovntwn ajsebevsin teqeikwv"   
	c.	having made for ungodly people (an) example of coming things
		kai; divkaion Lw;t kataponouvmenon   
2:7	a.	yet (the) righteous Lot being distressed
		uJpo; th'" tw'n ajqevsmwn ejn ajselgeiva/ ajnastrofh'"  
	b.	because of the behaviour of the lawless ones in licentiousness
		ejrruvsato  
	c.	He rescued
		blevmmati ga;r kai; ajkoh'/   
2:8	a.	because by what is seen and heard
		oJ divkaio" ejgkatoikw'n ejn aujtoi'" 
	b.	the righteous one living among them
		hJmevran ejx hJmevra" yuch;n dikaivan ajnovmoi" e[rgoi"    
	c.	day after day he tormented (his) righteous soul by (their) lawless    
		ejbasavnizen   
		deeds
		oi\den kuvrio" eujsebei'" ejk peirasmou' rJuvesqai 
2:9	a.	(the) Lord knows how to rescue (the) devout from testing
		ajdivkou" de; eij" hJmevran krivsew" kolazomevnou" threi'n   
	b.	but to keep (the) unjust being punished until (the) day of punishment
		mavlista de; tou;" ojpivsw sarko;" ejn ejpiqumiva/ miasmou'    
2:10	a.	and especially those behaving with lust following defilement of (the)    
		poreuomevnou"   
		body
		kai; kuriovthto" katafronou'nta" 
	b.	and despising supernatural power
		tolmhtai;   
	c.	daring persons
		aujqavdei"  
	d.	arrogant persons
		dovxa" ouj trevmousin blasfhmou'nte"  
	e.	they do not fear blaspheming glorious beings
		o{pou a[ggeloi ijscuvi> kai; dunavmei meivzone" o[nte"  
2:11	a.	where angels being greater in strength and power
		ouj fevrousin kat! aujtw'n para; kurivou blavsfhmon  
	b.	do not bring blasphemous condemnation against them before (the)  
		krivsin 
		Lord
		ou|toi de; wJ" a[loga zw'/a 
2:12	a.	these ones then (are) like animals without reason
		gegennhmevna fusika; eij" a{lwsin kai; fqora;n  
	b.	having been born by nature for capture and destruction
		ejn oi|" ajgnoou'sin blasfhmou'nte"  
	c.	blaspheming concerning what they fail to understand
		ejn th'/ fqora'/ aujtw'n 
	d.	by their killing
		kai; fqarhvsontai 
	e.	also they will be destroyed
		ajdikouvmenoi misqo;n ajdikiva" 
2:13	a.	mistreated as reward for unrighteousness
		hJdonh;n hJgouvmenoi th;n ejn hJmevra/ trufhvn 
2:13	b.	regarding as pleasure revelling in daylight
		spivloi kai; mw'moi  
	c.	stains and blemishes (they are)
		ejntrufw'nte" ejn tai'" ajpavtai" aujtw'n 
	d.	carousing in their deceptions
		suneuwcouvmenoi uJmi'n  
	e.	feasting together with you
		ojfqalmou;" e[conte" mestou;" moicalivdo" 
2:14	a.	having eyes full of (an) adulterous woman
		kai; ajkatapauvstou" aJmartiva" 
	b.	yes never stopping from sin
		deleavzonte" yuca;" ajsthrivktou" 
	c.	luring into sin unstable persons
		kardivan gegumnasmevnhn pleonexiva" e[conte" 
	d.	having (an) inner self trained in greed
		katavra" tevkna  
	e.	children of accursedness
		kataleivponte" eujqei'an oJdovn  
2:15	a.	having left (the) right way of life
		ejplanhvqhsan 
	b.	they strayed from the truth
		ejxakolouqhvsante" th'/ oJdw'/ tou' Balaa;m tou' Bosovr    
	c.	having followed the way of Balaam the son of Bosor
		o}" misqo;n ajdikiva" hjgavphsen 
	d.	who loved (the) reward of unrighteousness
		e[legxin de; e[scen ijdiva" paranomiva" 
2:16	a.	but he experienced rebuke for his lawless act
		uJpozuvgion a[fwnon ejn ajnqrwvpou fwnh'/ fqegxavmenon 
	b.	(a) mute pack animal having spoken with (a) human voice
		ejkwvlusen th;n tou' profhvtou parafronivan 
	c.	prevented the insane action of the prophet
		ou|toi eijsin phgai; a[nudroi 
2:17	a.	these people are waterless springs
		kai; oJmivclai uJpo; laivlapo" ejlaunovmenai  
	b.	and mists driven by (a) windstorm
		oi|" oJ zovfo" tou' skovtou" tethvrhtai 
	c.	for whom gloomy hell has been retained
		uJpevrogka ga;r mataiovthto" fqeggovmenoi 
2:18	a.	because speaking boastfull things of futility
		deleavzousin  
	b.	they lure into sin
		ejn ejpiqumivai" sarko;" 
	c.	by (the) lusts of human nature
		ajselgeivai"  
	d.	(by) extreme immoralities
		tou;" ojlivgw" ajpofeuvgonta"  
	e.	those hardly escaping
		tou;" ejn plavnh/ ajnastrefomevnou"  
	f.	those behaving with deceptive belief
		ejleuqerivan aujtoi'" ejpaggellovmenoi 
2:19	a.	promising to them freedom
		aujtoi; dou'loi uJpavrconte" th'" fqora'" 
	b.	themselves being slaves of moral corruption
		w|/ gavr ti" h{tthtai  
	c.	because by what someone is defeated
		touvtw/ dedouvlwtai   
	d.	by that he has been made a slave of
		eij ga;r 
2:20	a.	because if
		ajpofugovnte" ta; miavsmata tou' kovsmou  
	b.	having escaped the defilements of the world
		ejn ejpignwvsei tou' kurivou »hJmw'n¼ kai; swth'ro" !Ihsou' Cristou' 
	c.	by knowledge of [our] Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ
		touvtoi" de; pavlin ejmplakevnte"  
	d.	and then again having become involved in them
		hJttw'ntai 
	e.	they are defeated
		gevgonen aujtoi'" ta; e[scata ceivrona tw'n prwvtwn 
	f.	the last things have become to them worse than the first
		krei'tton ga;r h\n aujtoi'" 
2:21	a.	indeed it was better for them
		mh; ejpegnwkevnai th;n oJdo;n th'" dikaiosuvnh" 
	b.	not having known the Way of righteousness
		h] ejpignou'sin 
	c.	than for ones having known
		uJpostrevyai  
	d.	to turn back
		ejk th'" paradoqeivsh" aujtoi'" aJgiva" ejntolh'"   
	e.	away from the sacred command taught to them
		sumbevbhken aujtoi'" to; th'" ajlhqou'" paroimiva" 
2:22	a.	to them has happened the (fact) of the true proverb
		kuvwn ejpistrevya" ejpi; to; i[dion ejxevrama 
	b.	(a) dog turns back to his own vomit
		kaiv 
	c.	and
		u|" lousamevnh eij" kulismo;n borbovrou 
	d.	(a) washed sow to (the) rolling about of mud
		tauvthn h[dh  
3:1	a.	this (is) already
		ajgaphtoiv  
	b.	beloved
		deutevran uJmi'n gravfw ejpistolhvn 
	c.	(the) second letter I write to you
		ejn ai|" diegeivrw   
	d.	in which I stir up
		uJmw'n ejn uJpomnhvsei th;n eijlikrinh' diavnoian   
	e.	your sincere mind by reminding (you)
		mnhsqh'nai 
3:2	a.	to remember
		tw'n proeirhmevnwn rJhmavtwn uJpo; tw'n aJgivwn profhtw'n 
	b.	the words spoken long ago by the devout prophets
		kai; th'" tw'n ajpostovlwn uJmw'n ejntolh'" tou' kurivou kai;   
	c.	and the commandment of your apostles (coming) from our Lord   
		swth'ro"  
		and Saviour
		tou'to prw'ton ginwvskonte" o{ti 
3:3	a.	knowing this first that
		ejleuvsontai ejp! ejscavtwn tw'n hJmerw'n »ejn¼ ejmpaigmonh'/ ejmpai'ktai 
	b.	mockers will come in the last days [with] ridicule
		kata; ta;" ijdiva" ejpiqumiva" aujtw'n poreuovmenoi 
	c.	behaving according to their own evil desires
		kai; levgonte" 
3:4	a.	and saying
		pou' ejstin hJ ejpaggeliva th'" parousiva" aujtou'_  
	b.	where is the promise of His coming?
		ajf! h|" ga;r oiJ patevre" ejkoimhvqhsan 
	c.	because since which (time) the ancestors died
		pavnta ou{tw" diamevnei ajp! ajrch'" ktivsew"  
	d.	everything remains like this since (the) beginning of creation
		lanqavnei ga;r aujtou;" 
3:5	a.	indeed it slips their minds
		tou'to qevlonta" o{ti 
	b.	desiring this that
		oujranoi; h\san e[kpalai 
	c.	there were heavens long ago
		kai; gh' ejx u{dato" kai; di! u{dato" sunestw'sa 
	d.	and (an) earth formed out of water and through water
		tw'/ tou' qeou' lovgw/ 
	e.	by the word of God
		di! w|n oJ tovte kovsmo" 
3:6	a.	by which (waters) the then earth
		u{dati kataklusqei;" 
	b.	flooded by water
		ajpwvleto 
	c.	was destroyed
		oiJ de; nu'n oujranoi; kai; hJ gh' tw'/ aujtw'/ lovgw/ teqhsaurismevnoi   
3:7	a.	but the present heavens and the earth have been preserved by the   
		eijsi;n  
		same word
		puriv throuvmenoi eij" hJmevran krivsew"  
	b.	being kept for fire on (the) day of judgment
		kai; ajpwleiva" tw'n ajsebw'n ajnqrwvpwn 
	c.	and destruction of the ungodly people
		e{n de; tou'to mh; lanqanevtw uJma'" 
3:8	a.	now this one thing let it not slip your mind
		ajgaphtoiv o{ti 
	b.	beloved that
		miva hJmevra para; kurivw/ wJ" civlia e[th  
	c.	one day in the opinion of (the) Lord (is) like (a) thousand years
		kai; civlia e[th wJ" hJmevra miva 
	d.	and (a) thousand years like one day
		ouj braduvnei kuvrio" th'" ejpaggeliva"  
3:9	a.	(the) Lord does not delay His promise
		w{" tine" braduvthta hJgou'ntai 
	b.	as some regard (it as) delay
		ajlla; makroqumei' eij" uJma'" 
	c.	but He is patient with you
		mh; boulovmeno" tina" ajpolevsqai 
	d.	not wanting some to perish
		ajlla; pavnta" eij" metavnoian cwrh'sai  
	e.	but that all advance to repentance
		h{xei de; hJmevra kurivou wJ" klevpth"  
3:10	a.	and further (the) day of (the) Lord will come like (a) thief
		ejn h|/ oiJ oujranoi; rJoizhdo;n pareleuvsontai  
	b.	on which (day) the heavens will cease to exist with a rushing noise
		stoicei'a de; kausouvmena luqhvsetai 
	c.	and (the) elements burning will be destroyed
		kai; gh' kai; ta; ejn aujth'/ e[rga euJreqhvsetai   
	d.	and earth and the works on it will undergo (destruction)
		touvtwn ou{tw" pavntwn luomevnwn 
3:11	a.	all these things thus being destroyed
		potapou;" dei' uJpavrcein »uJma'"¼ ejn aJgivai" ajnastrofai'" kai;  
	b.	what sort of (people) should [you] be to live in devout behaviour and  
		eujsebeivai" 
		piety
		prosdokw'nta" kai; speuvdonta" 
3:12	a.	expecting and being eager for
		th;n parousivan th'" tou' qeou' hJmevra"  
	b.	the arrival of the day of God
		di! h}n oujranoi; purouvmenoi luqhvsontai 
	c.	during which (the) heavens burning will be destroyed
		kai; stoicei'a kausouvmena thvketai 
	d.	and (the) elements being burned will melt
		kainou;" de; oujranou;" kai; gh'n kainh;n  
3:13	a.	but (a) new sky and (a) new earth
		kata; to; ejpavggelma aujtou' 
	b.	according to His promise
		prosdokw'men 
	c.	we are expecting
		ejn oi|" dikaiosuvnh katoikei' 
	d.	in which righteousness lives
		diov ajgaphtoiv  
3:14	a.	therefore beloved
		tau'ta prosdokw'nte" 
	b.	expecting these things
		spoudavsate a[spiloi kai; ajmwvmhtoi aujtw'/ euJreqh'nai ejn eijrhvnh/ 
	c.	be eager to be found pure and blameless with Him in peace
		kai; th;n tou' kurivou hJmw'n makroqumivan swthrivan hJgei'sqe 
3:15	a.	and regard the patience of our Lord as salvation
		kaqw;" kai; oJ ajgaphto;" hJmw'n ajdelfo;" Pau'lo"  
	b.	just as also our beloved fellow believer Paul
		kata; th;n doqei'san aujtw'/ sofivan 
	c.	according to the wisdom given to him
		e[grayen uJmi'n 
	d.	wrote to you
		wJ" kai; ejn pavsai" ejpistolai'" lalw'n ejn aujtai'" peri; touvtwn 
3:16	a.	as also in all (his) letters speaking in them about these things
		ejn ai|" ejstin dusnovhta tina  
	b.	in which some things are difficult to understand
		a} oiJ ajmaqei'" kai; ajsthvriktoi streblou'sin 
	c.	which the ignorant and unstable misinterpret
		wJ" kai; ta;" loipa;" grafa;"   
	d.	as also the other Scriptures
		pro;" th;n ijdivan aujtw'n ajpwvleian 
	e.	ending in their own destruction
		uJmei'" ou\n ajgaphtoiv proginwvskonte"  
3:17	a.	you then  beloved  knowing (this) beforehand
		fulavssesqe 
	b.	be on your guard
		i{na mh; th'/ tw'n ajqevsmwn plavnh/ sunapacqevnte"    
	c.	so as not being led astray by the deception of the lawless people
		ejkpevshte tou' ijdivou sthrigmou'  
	d.	you may lose your own firm position
		aujxavnete de; ejn cavriti kai; gnwvsei tou' kurivou hJmw'n kai; swth'ro"  
3:18	a.	but grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus  
		!Ihsou' Cristou' 
		Christ
		aujtw'/ hJ dovxa kai; nu'n kai; eij" hJmevran aijw'no" 
3:18	b.	to Him the glory both now and forever
		»ajmhvn¼ 
	c.	[amen]
