		to; loipo;n proseuvcesqe ajdelfoiv peri; hJmw'n  
3:1	a.	finally pray for us fellow believers
		i{na oJ lovgo" tou' kurivou trevch/  
	b.	so that the message of the Lord may spread
		kai; doxavzhtai  
	c.	and be respected
		kaqw;" kai; pro;" uJma'" 
	d.	just as also with you
		kai; i{na rJusqw'men  
3:2	a.	also that we may be rescued
		ajpo; tw'n ajtovpwn kai; ponhrw'n ajnqrwvpwn 
	b.	from the bad and wicked people
		ouj ga;r pavntwn hJ pivsti" 
	c.	because the faith (is) not of all
		pisto;" dev ejstin oJ kuvrio" 
3:3	a.	however the Lord is faithful
		o}" sthrivxei uJma'" 
	b.	Who will strengthen you
		kai; fulavxei ajpo; tou' ponhrou'  
	c.	and will guard (you) from the evil one
		pepoivqamen de; ejn kurivw/ ejf! uJma'" o{ti 
3:4	a.	further we trust in (the) Lord about you that
		a} paraggevllomen 
	b.	what we command (you)
		»kai;¼ poiei'te kai; poihvsete  
	c.	[also] you do and will do
		oJ de; kuvrio" kateuquvnai uJmw'n ta;" kardiva" 
3:5	a.	and may the Lord guide your inner selves
		eij" th;n ajgavphn tou' qeou'  
	b.	to the love of God
		kai; eij" th;n uJpomonh;n tou' Cristou'   
	c.	and to the endurance of Christ
		paraggevllomen de; uJmi'n ajdelfoiv  
3:6	a.	now we command you fellow believers
		ejn ojnovmati tou' kurivou »hJmw'n¼ !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	b.	in (the) Name of [our] Lord Jesus Christ
		stevllesqai uJma'" ajpo; panto;" ajdelfou'  
	c.	you should avoid every fellow believer
		ajtavktw" peripatou'nto"   
	d.	living lazily
		kai; mh; kata; th;n paravdosin 
	e.	and not according to the tradition
		h}n parelavbosan par! hJmw'n   
	f.	that they received from us
		aujtoi; ga;r oi[date  
3:7	a.	because you yourself know
		pw'" dei' mimei'sqai hJma'" 
	b.	how it is necessary to imitate us
		o{ti oujk hjtakthvsamen ejn uJmi'n 
	c.	for we were not lazy among you
		oujde; dwrea;n a[rton ejfavgomen parav tino" 
3:8	a.	and not without paying we ate bread from anyone
		ajll! ejn kovpw/ kai; movcqw/  
	b.	but with labour and toil
		nukto;" kai; hJmevra" ejrgazovmenoi 
	c.	working night and day
		pro;" to; mh; ejpibarh'sai tina uJmw'n 
	d.	so as not to be a burden to anyone of you
		oujc o{ti oujk e[comen ejxousivan 
3:9	a.	not that we have no authority
		ajll! i{na eJautou;" tuvpon dw'men uJmi'n  
	b.	but that we may give ourselves as example to you
		eij" to; mimei'sqai hJma'"  
	c.	for you to imitate
		kai; ga;r o{te h\men pro;" uJma'"  
3:10	a.	because also when we were with you
		tou'to parhggevllomen uJmi'n o{ti   
	b.	this we commanded you that
		ei[ ti" ouj qevlei ejrgavzesqai 
	c.	if someone does not want to work
		mhde; ejsqievtw 
	d.	let him also not eat
		ajkouvomen gavr tina" peripatou'nta" ejn uJmi'n ajtavktw"  
3:11	a.	because we hear some living lazily among you
		mhde;n ejrgazomevnou" 
	b.	not working at all
		ajlla; periergazomevnou" 
	c.	but being busybodies
		toi'" de; toiouvtoi" paraggevllomen 
3:12	a.	we now command such ones
		kai; parakalou'men ejn kurivw/ !Ihsou' Cristw'/ i{na 
	b.	and we urge in union with (the) Lord Jesus Christ that
		meta; hJsuciva" ejrgazovmenoi  
	c.	working with peaceful living
		to;n eJautw'n a[rton ejsqivwsin  
	d.	they should eat their own bread
		uJmei'" dev ajdelfoiv mh; ejgkakhvshte   
3:13	a.	but you fellow believers do not be discouraged
		kalopoiou'nte" 
	b.	doing good
		eij dev ti" oujc uJpakouvei tw'/ lovgw/ hJmw'n 
3:14	a.	but if someone does not obey our message
		dia; th'" ejpistolh'"  
	b.	by means of this letter
		tou'ton shmeiou'sqe 
	c.	you should take note of this
		mh; sunanamivgnusqai aujtw'/  
	d.	to not associate with him
		i{na ejntraph'/  
	e.	so that he may be ashamed
		kai; mh; wJ" ejcqro;n hJgei'sqe 
3:15	a.	yet regard (him) not as (an) enemy
		ajlla; nouqetei'te wJ" ajdelfovn 
	b.	but admonish (him) as (a) fellow believer
		aujto;" de; oJ kuvrio" th'" eijrhvnh" dwv/h uJmi'n  
3:16	a.	now may the Lord of peace Himself give to you
		th;n eijrhvnhn dia; panto;" ejn panti; trovpw/ 
	b.	the peace always in every way
		oJ kuvrio" meta; pavntwn uJmw'n 
	c.	the Lord (be) with you all
