		ejgw; ga;r h[dh spevndomai  
4:6	a.	yes I am already being poured out as an offering
		kai; oJ kairo;" th'" ajnaluvsew" mou ejfevsthken  
	b.	and the time of my death is imminent
		to;n kalo;n ajgw'na hjgwvnismai  
4:7	a.	the good struggle I have fought
		to;n drovmon tetevleka   
	b.	the race I have completed
		th;n pivstin tethvrhka  
	c.	the faith I have retained
		loipo;n ajpovkeitai moi  
4:8	a.	from now on is set for me
		oJ th'" dikaiosuvnh" stevfano"  
	b.	the crown of doing what God requires
		o}n ajpodwvsei moi oJ kuvrio" ejn ejkeivnh/ th'/ hJmevra/   
	c.	which the Lord will give to me on that day
		oJ divkaio" krithv"   
	d.	(He) the righteous judge
		ouj movnon de; ejmoi; ajlla; kai; pa'si  
	e.	and not only for me but also for all
		toi'" hjgaphkovsi th;n ejpifavneian aujtou'  
	f.	those having loved His appearance
		spouvdason ejlqei'n prov" me tacevw"  
4:9	a.	do your best to come to me quickly
		Dhma'" gavr me ejgkatevlipen  
4:10	a.	because Demas has forsaken me
		ajgaphvsa" to;n nu'n aijw'na  
	b.	having loved the present world
		kai; ejporeuvqh eij" Qessalonivkhn    
	c.	and he went to Thessalonica
		Krhvskh" eij" Galativan  
	d.	Crescens (went) to Galatia
		Tivto" eij" Dalmativan  
	e.	Titus (went) to Dalmatia
		Louka'" ejstin movno" met! ejmou'  
4:11	a.	Luke alone is with me
		Ma'rkon ajnalabw;n  
	b.	having taken Mark
		a[ge meta; seautou'  
	c.	bring (him) with you
		e[stin gavr moi eu[crhsto" eij" diakonivan   
	d.	because he is to me useful for ministry
		Tuvcikon de; ajpevsteila eij" %Efeson   
4:12	a.	now Tychicus I sent to Ephesus
		to;n failovnhn o}n ajpevlipon ejn Trw/avdi para; Kavrpw     
4:13	a.	the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas
		ejrcovmeno" fevre  
	b.	when you come bring
		kai; ta; bibliva  
	c.	also the books
		mavlista ta;" membravna"   
	d.	especially the parchments
		!Alevxandro" oJ calkeu;" pollav moi kaka; ejnedeivxato   
4:14	a.	Alexander the coppersmith did me a great deal of harm
		ajpodwvsei aujtw'/ oJ kuvrio" kata; ta; e[rga aujtou'  
	b.	the Lord will repay him according to his deeds
		o}n kai; su; fulavssou   
4:15	a.	whom also you must avoid
		livan ga;r ajntevsth toi'" hJmetevroi" lovgoi"    
	b.	because he strongly opposed our words
		ejn th'/ prwvth/ mou ajpologiva/    
4:16	a.	in my first defence
		oujdeiv" moi paregevneto  
	b.	no one came to help me
		ajlla; pavnte" me ejgkatevlipon  
	c.	but all forsook me
		mh; aujtoi'" logisqeivh  
	d.	may it not be kept against them
		oJ de; kuvrio" moi parevsth  
4:17	a.	but the Lord helped me
		kai; ejnedunavmwsen me  
	b.	and He strengthened me
		i{na di! ejmou' to; khvrugma plhroforhqh'/  
	c.	so that through me the message may be proclaimed
		kai; ajkouvswsin pavnta ta; e[qnh  
	d.	and (that) all the nations might hear
		kai; ejrruvsqhn ejk stovmato" levonto"  
	e.	and I was rescued from (the) lion's mouth
		rJuvsetai me oJ kuvrio" ajpo; panto;" e[rgou ponhrou'  
4:18	a.	the Lord will rescue me from every evil deed
		kai; swvsei eij" th;n basileivan aujtou' th;n ejpouravnion   
	b.	and He will save (me) for His heavenly Kingdom
		w|/ hJ dovxa  
	c.	to Whom the glory
		eij" tou;" aijw'na" tw'n aijwvnwn   
	d.	forever and ever
		ajmhvn  
	e.	amen
		ajspasai Privskan kai; !Akuvlan   
4:19	a.	greet Priscilla and Aquila
		kai; to;n !Onhsifovrou oi\kon   
	b.	and the household of Onesiphorus
		#Erasto" e[meinen ejn Korivnqw/   
4:20	a.	Erastus remained in Corinth
		Trovfimon de; ajpevlipon ejn Milhvtw/ ajsqenou'nta   
	b.	and Trophimus I left behind ill in Miletus
		spouvdason pro; ceimw'no" ejlqei'n  
4:21	a.	do your best to come before winter
		ajspavzetai se Eu[boulo"  
	b.	Eubulus greets you
		kai; Pouvdh" kai; Livno" kai; Klaudiva kai; oiJ ajdelfoi; pavnte"  
	c.	also Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the fellow believers
		oJ kuvrio" meta; tou' pneuvmato" sou  
4:22	a.	the Lord (be) with your inner being
		hJ cavri" meq! uJmw'n  
	b.	grace (be) with you
