		su; ou\n tevknon mou  
2:1	a.	you therefore my son
		ejndunamou' ejn th'/ cavriti  
	b.	become able by grace
		th'/ ejn Cristw'/ !Ihsou'   
	c.	the (grace) from Christ Jesus
		kai; a} h[kousa" par! ejmou' dia; pollw'n martuvrwn  
2:2	a.	and what you heard from me by many witnesses
		tau'ta paravqou pistoi'" ajnqrwvpoi"   
	b.	entrust that to faithful people
		oi{tine" iJkanoi; e[sontai kai; eJtevrou" didavxai   
	c.	who will be able also to teach others
		sugkakopavqhson wJ" kalo;" stratiwvth" Cristou' !Ihsou'  
2:3	a.	join in suffering as (a) good soldier of Christ Jesus
		oujdei;" strateuovmeno"  
2:4	a.	no one being a soldier
		ejmplevketai tai'" tou' bivou pragmateivai"  
	b.	is involved in the affairs of daily life
		i{na tw'/ stratologhvsanti ajrevsh/  
	c.	so that he may please the commander
		eja;n de; kai; ajqlh'/ ti"  
2:5	a.	further also if someone is an athlete
		ouj stefanou'tai  
	b.	he will not receive the prize
		eja;n mh; nomivmw" ajqlhvsh/  
	c.	unless he competes correctly
		to;n kopiw'nta gewrgo;n  
2:6	a.	the hard-working farmer
		dei' prw'ton tw'n karpw'n metalambavnein   
	b.	must first have a share of the fruit
		novei o} levgw  
2:7	a.	consider well what I say
		dwvsei gavr soi oJ kuvrio" suvnesin ejn pa'sin   
	b.	indeed the Lord will give you insight in everything
		mnhmovneue !Ihsou'n Cristo;n  
2:8	a.	remember Jesus Christ
		ejghgermevnon ejk nekrw'n  
	b.	having been raised from (the) dead
		ejk spevrmato" Dauivd  
	c.	from (the) lineage of David
		kata; to; eujaggevlion mou  
	d.	according to my gospel
		ejn w|/ kakopaqw' mevcri desmw'n   
2:9	a.	for which I suffer hardship to the point of chains
		wJ" kakou'rgo"  
	b.	as (an) evildoer
		ajlla; oJ lovgo" tou' qeou' ouj devdetai   
	c.	but the message of God is not chained
		dia; tou'to pavnta uJpomevnw dia; tou;" ejklektouv" 
2:10	a.	due to this I endure all for the sake of the elect
		i{na kai; aujtoi; swthriva" tuvcwsin  
	b.	so that also they themselves may have salvation
		th'" ejn Cristw'/ !Ihsou'    
	c.	the (salvation) by Christ Jesus
		meta; dovxh" aijwnivou  
	d.	with everlasting glory
		pisto;" oJ lovgo"  
2:11	a.	the statement (is) trustworthy
		eij ga;r sunapeqavnomen  
	b.	for if we died with (Him)
		kai; suzhvsomen  
	c.	also we will live with (Him)
		eij uJpomevnomen  
2:12	a.	if we endure
		kai; sumbasileuvsomen  
	b.	also we will reign with (Him)
		eij ajrnhsovmeqa  
	c.	if we will deny (Him)
		kakei'no" ajrnhvsetai hJma'"  
	d.	also He will deny us
		eij ajpistou'men  
2:13	a.	if we are faithless
		ejkei'no" pisto;" mevnei  
	b.	He remains faithful
		ajrnhvsasqai ga;r eJauto;n ouj duvnatai   
	c.	for He can not be untrue to Himself
		tau'ta uJpomivmnh/ske  
2:14	a.	remind (people) of these things
		diamarturovmeno" ejnwvpion tou' qeou'  
	b.	warning (them) before God
		mh; logomacei'n 
	c.	not to argue about words
		ejp! oujde;n crhvsimon   
	d.	(it is) useful for nothing
		ejpi; katastrofh'/ tw'n ajkouovntwn     
	e.	for harm of the hearers
		spouvdason seauto;n  
2:15	a.	be eager yourself
		dovkimon parasth'sai tw'/ qew'/  
	b.	to cause (you) to be worthy to God
		ejrgavthn ajnepaivscunton  
	c.	(a) worker not feeling shame
		ojrqotomou'nta to;n lovgon th'" ajlhqeiva"  
	d.	teaching correctly the message of the truth
		ta;" de; bebhvlou" kenofwniva" perii?staso   
2:16	a.	and avoid the worldly foolish talk
		ejpi; plei'on ga;r prokovyousin ajsebeiva"  
	b.	for they will increase to more ungodliness
		kai; oJ lovgo" aujtw'n wJ" gavggraina nomh;n e{xei  
2:17	a.	and their message will have (a) spread like cancer
		w|n ejstin @Umevnaio" kai; Fivlhto"  
	b.	of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus
		oi{tine" peri; th;n ajlhvqeian hjstovchsan  
2:18	a.	who lost their way with regard to the truth
		levgonte" »th;n¼ ajnavstasin h[dh gegonevnai   
	b.	saying that [the] resurrection has already happened
		kai; ajnatrevpousin thvn tinwn pivstin  
	c.	indeed they upset the faith of some
		oJ mevntoi stereo;" qemevlio" tou' qeou' e{sthken    
2:19	a.	however the firm foundation of God remains firmly
		e[cwn th;n sfragi'da tauvthn  
	b.	having this inscription
		e[gnw kuvrio" tou;" o[nta" aujtou'  
	c.	(the) Lord knows those being His
		kaiv  
	d.	and
		ajposthvtw ajpo; ajdikiva"  
	e.	turn away from unrighteousness
		pa'" oJ ojnomavzwn to; o[noma kurivou   
	f.	everyone calling the Name of the Lord
		ejn megavlh/ de; oijkiva/ oujk e[stin movnon skeuvh crusa' kai; ajrgura'  
2:20	a.	now in (a) large house there is not only golden and silver vessels
		ajlla; kai; xuvlina kai; ojstravkina   
	b.	but also of wood and clay
		kai; a} me;n eij" timh;n a} de; eij" ajtimivan    
	c.	indeed first some for honour and then others for dishonour
		eja;n ou\n ti" ejkkaqavrh/ eJauto;n ajpo; touvtwn  
2:21	a.	if then someone cleanses himself from these
		e[stai skeu'o" eij" timhvn  
	b.	he will be (a) vessel for honour
		hJgiasmevnon  
	c.	dedicated
		eu[crhston tw'/ despovth/  
	d.	useful to the Lord
		eij" pa'n e[rgon ajgaqo;n hJtoimasmevnon  
	e.	made ready for every good work
		ta;" de; newterika;" ejpiqumiva" feu'ge  
2:22	a.	and avoid the youthful lusts
		divwke de; dikaiosuvnhn pivstin ajgavphn eijrhvnhn  
	b.	and pursue righteousness faith love peace
		meta; tw'n ejpikaloumevnwn to;n kuvrion   
	c.	along with those appealing to the Lord
		ejk kaqara'" kardiva"   
	d.	with (a) pure inner being
		ta;" de; mwra;" kai; ajpaideuvtou" zhthvsei" paraitou'  
2:23	a.	and avoid foolish and ignorant disputes
		eijdw;" o{ti gennw'sin mavca"     
	b.	knowing that they cause fights to happen
		dou'lon de; kurivou ouj dei' mavcesqai  
2:24	a.	and (a) servant of (the) Lord must not fight
		ajlla; h[pion ei\nai pro;" pavnta"   
	b.	but (must) be gentle to all
		didaktikovn   
	c.	able to teach
		ajnexivkakon   
	d.	patient
		ejn prau?thti paideuvonta tou;" ajntidiatiqemevnou"    
2:25	a.	with gentleness teaching those showing hostility
		mhvpote dwv/h aujtoi'" oJ qeo;" metavnoian  
	b.	if perhaps God may give them repentance
		eij" ejpivgnwsin ajlhqeiva"   
	c.	resulting in (the) knowledge of truth
		kai; ajnanhvywsin  
2:26	a.	and may return to their senses
		ejk th'" tou' diabovlou pagivdo"   
	b.	free from the snare of the devil
		ejzwgrhmevnoi uJp! aujtou'  
	c.	having been controlled by him
		eij" to; ejkeivnou qevlhma  
	d.	in order to (do) his will
