		oJ presbuvtero"  
1:1	a.	the elder
		Gai?w/ tw'/ ajgaphtw'/ 
	b.	to Gaius the beloved
		o}n ejgw; ajgapw' ejn ajlhqeiva/ 
	c.	whom I really love
		ajgaphtev 
1:2	a.	beloved
		peri; pavntwn eu[comai se eujodou'sqai kai; uJgiaivnein   
	b.	concerning all things I pray that you get along well and be healthy
		kaqw;" eujodou'tai sou hJ yuchv 
	c.	just as your inner self gets along well
		ejcavrhn ga;r livan  
1:3	a.	I then was very happy
		ejrcomevnwn ajdelfw'n kai; marturouvntwn sou th'/ ajlhqeiva/    
	b.	about fellow believers coming and witnessing to your truth
		kaqw;" su; ejn ajlhqeiva/ peripatei'" 
	c.	how you live in truth
		meizotevran touvtwn oujk e[cw caravn i{na 
1:4	a.	I have no greater joy than this that
		ajkouvw ta; ejma; tevkna ejn th'/ ajlhqeiva/ peripatou'nta 
	b.	I hear my children live in the truth
		ajgaphtev  
1:5	a.	beloved
		pisto;n poiei'"  
	b.	you do (the) faithful thing
		o} eja;n ejrgavsh/ eij" tou;" ajdelfou;"   
	c.	what ever you do for the fellow believers
		kai; tou'to xevnou"  
	d.	also this (you do for) strangers
		oi} ejmartuvrhsan sou th'/ ajgavph/ ejnwvpion ejkklhsiva" 
1:6	a.	who testified to your love before (the) church
		ou}" kalw'" poihvsei"  
	b.	to whom you will do well
		propevmya" ajxivw" tou' qeou' 
	c.	having sent (them) on their way worthy of God
		uJpe;r ga;r tou' ojnovmato" ejxh'lqon  
1:7	a.	because for the sake of His Name they went out
		mhde;n lambavnonte" ajpo; tw'n ejqnikw'n 
	b.	having taken nothing from the Gentiles
		hJmei'" ou\n ojfeivlomen uJpolambavnein tou;" toiouvtou"  
1:8	a.	we then have an obligation to help such people
		i{na sunergoi; ginwvmeqa th'/ ajlhqeiva/  
	b.	so that we may be fellow workers for the truth
		ejgraya ti th'/ ejkklhsiva/   
1:9	a.	I wrote something to the church
		ajll! oJ filoprwteuvwn aujtw'n Diotrevfh"  
	b.	but Diotrephes desiring to order them
		oujk ejpidevcetai hJma'"  
	c.	does not listen to us
		dia; tou'to eja;n e[lqw 
1:10	a.	because of this when I come
		uJpomnhvsw aujtou' ta; e[rga  
	b.	I will remind (him) of his deeds
		a} poiei' lovgoi" ponhroi'" 
	c.	which he does with evil words
		fluarw'n hJma'"  
	d.	talking nonsense about us
		kai; mh; ajrkouvmeno" ejpi; touvtoi"  
	e.	and not being satisfied with this
		ou[te aujto;" ejpidevcetai tou;" ajdelfou;"   
	f.	and he himself does not welcome the fellow believers
		kai; tou;" boulomevnou" kwluvei 
	g.	and he prevents those wanting (to do it)
		kai; ejk th'" ejkklhsiva" ejkbavllei  
	h.	and he drives (them) out of the church
		ajgaphtev  
1:11	a.	beloved
		mh; mimou' to; kako;n  
	b.	do not imitate the evil
		ajlla; to; ajgaqovn  
	c.	but the good
		oJ ajgaqopoiw'n ejk tou' qeou' ejstin  
	d.	the one doing good is from God
		oJ kakopoiw'n oujc eJwvraken to;n qeovn  
	e.	the one doing evil has not experienced God
		Dhmhtrivw/ memartuvrhtai uJpo; pavntwn 
1:12	a.	Demetrius has been testified to by all
		kai; uJpo; aujth'" th'" ajlhqeiva" 
	b.	and by the truth itself
		kai; hJmei'" de; marturou'men  
	c.	and also we testify
		kai; oi\da" o{ti 
	d.	and you know that
		hJ marturiva hJmw'n ajlhqhv" ejstin 
	e.	our testimony is true
		polla; ei\con gravyai soi  
1:13	a.	I had much to write to you
		ajll! ouj qevlw dia; mevlano" kai; kalavmou soi gravfein  
	b.	but I do not want to write to you with ink and pen
		ejlpivzw de; eujqevw" se ijdei'n 
1:14	a.	further I hope to visit you right away
		kai; stovma pro;" stovma lalhvsomen 
	b.	and then we will speak face to face
		eijrhvnh soi  
1:15	a.	peace to you
		ajspavzontai se oiJ fivloi 
	b.	the friends (here) greet you
		ajspavzou tou;" fivlou" kat! o[noma 
	c.	greet the friends (there) by name
