		ejgevneto de; ejn tw'/ to;n !Apollw' ei\nai ejn Korivnqw/  
19:1	a.	now it happened that when Apollos is in Corinth
		Pau'lon dielqovnta ta; ajnwterika; mevrh  
	b.	Paul having gone through the inland districts
		katelqei'n eij" %Efeson  
	c.	he came down to Ephesus
		kai; euJrei'n tina" maqhta;"  
	d.	and he found some disciples
		ei\pen te pro;" aujtouv"   
19:2	a.	then he said to them
		eij pneu'ma a{gion ejlavbete pisteuvsante"_  
	b.	is it that you received (the) Holy Spirit when having believed?
		oiJ de; pro;" aujtovn  
	c.	but they (said) to him
		ajll! oujd! eij pneu'ma a{gion e[stin hjkouvsamen  
	d.	indeed we did not even hear that there is (a) Holy Spirit
		ei\pen te  
19:3	a.	and then he said
		eij" tiv ou\n ejbaptivsqhte_  
	b.	by what were you then baptised?
		oiJ de; ei\pan  
	c.	and they said
		eij" to; !Iwavnnou bavptisma  
	d.	by the baptism of John
		ei\pen de; Pau'lo"  
19:4	a.	so Paul said
		!Iwavnnh" ejbavptisen bavptisma metanoiva"   
	b.	John baptised (the) baptism of repentance
		tw'/ law'/ levgwn eij" to;n ejrcovmenon met! aujto;n  
	c.	speaking to the people about the One coming after him
		i{na pisteuvswsin  
	d.	that they should believe
		tou't! e[stin eij" to;n !Ihsou'n  
	e.	this is about Jesus
		ajkouvsante" de;  
19:5	a.	so having heard
		ejbaptivsqhsan eij" to; o[noma tou' kurivou !Ihsou'  
	b.	they were baptised in the Name of the Lord Jesus
		kai; ejpiqevnto" aujtoi'" tou' Pauvlou »ta;"¼ cei'ra"  
19:6	a.	then Paul having laid [his] hands on them
		h\lqe to; pneu'ma to; a{gion ejp! aujtouv"  
	b.	the Holy Spirit came on them
		ejlavloun te glwvssai"  
	c.	and they were talking in ecstatic languages
		kai; ejprofhvteuon  
	d.	and they were prophesying
		h\san de; oiJ pavnte" a[ndre" wJsei; dwvdeka  
19:7	a.	now all the men were about twelve
		eijselqw;n de; eij" th;n sunagwgh;n  
19:8	a.	and then having gone into the synagogue
		ejparrhsiavzeto ejpi; mh'na" trei'"  
	b.	he was speaking boldly for three months
		dialegovmeno"  
	c.	arguing
		kai; peivqwn »ta;¼ peri; th'" basileiva" tou' qeou'  
	d.	and persuading [the ones] about the Kingdom of God
		wJ" dev tine" ejsklhruvnonto  
19:9	a.	but when some were stubborn
		kai; hjpeivqoun  
	b.	and were refusing to believe
		kakologou'nte" th;n oJdo;n ejnwvpion tou' plhvqou"  
	c.	insulting the Way before the people
		ajposta;" ajp! aujtw'n  
	d.	having withdrawn from them
		ajfwvrisen tou;" maqhta;"  
	e.	he separated the disciples
		kaq! hJmevran dialegovmeno" ejn th'/ scolh'/ Turavnnou  
	f.	speaking day by day in the lecture hall of Tyrannus
		tou'to de; ejgevneto ejpi; e[th duvo  
19:10	a.	so this happened for two years
		w{ste pavnta" tou;" katoikou'nta" th;n !Asivan ajkou'sai to;n lovgon  tou' kurivou 
	b.	so that all those living in Asia heard the message of the Lord
		!Ioudaivou" te kai; $Ellhna"   
	c.	Jews as well as Greeks
		dunavmei" te ouj ta;" tucouvsa" oJ qeo;" ejpoivei dia; tw'n ceirw'n  Pauvlou 
19:11	a.	and God was doing never experienced miracles through the hands of Paul
		w{ste kai; ejpi; tou;" ajsqenou'nta"  
19:12	a.	so that even upon those being ill (were placed)
		ajpofevresqai ajpo; tou' crwto;" aujtou' soudavria h] simikivnqia  
	b.	face cloths or aprons taken away from the surface of his body
		kai; ajpallavssesqai ajp! aujtw'n ta;" novsou"  
	c.	and then the diseases left from them
		tav te pneuvmata ta; ponhra; ejkporeuvesqai  
	d.	and the evil spirits came out
		ejpeceivrhsan dev tine" kai; tw'n periercomevnwn !Ioudaivwn  ejxorkistw'n 
19:13	a.	but some indeed of the travelling Jewish exorcists tried
		ojnomavzein ejpi; tou;" e[conta" ta; pneuvmata ta; ponhra;  
	b.	to pronounce over those having evil spirits
		to; o[noma tou' kurivou !Ihsou' levgonte"  
	c.	the Name of the Lord Jesus saying
		oJrkivzw uJma'" to;n !Ihsou'n  
	d.	I put you under oath by Jesus
		o}n Pau'lo" khruvssei  
	e.	Whom Paul preaches
		h\san dev tino" Skeua' !Ioudaivou ajrcierevw" eJpta; uiJoi;  
19:14	a.	now there were seven sons of a certain Jewish high priest Sceva
		tou'to poiou'nte"  
	b.	doing this
		ajpokriqe;n de; to; pneu'ma to; ponhro;n  
19:15	a.	but the evil spirit having answered
		ei\pen aujtoi'"  
	b.	he said to them
		to;n »me;n¼ !Ihsou'n ginwvskw  
	c.	[indeed] I know Jesus
		kai; to;n Pau'lon ejpivstamai  
	d.	and Paul I know about
		uJmei'" de; tivne" ejstev_  
	e.	but you who are you?
		kai; ejfalovmeno" oJ a[nqrwpo" ejp! aujtou;"  
19:16	a.	and then the man having jumped upon them
		ejn w|/ h\n to; pneu'ma to; ponhrovn  
	b.	in whom the evil spirit was
		katakurieuvsa" ajmfotevrwn  
	c.	having overpowered all
		i[scusen kat! aujtw'n  
	d.	he was strong enough over them
		w{ste gumnou;" kai; tetraumatismevnou" ejkfugei'n ejk tou' oi[kou  ejkeivnou 
	e.	so that they fled naked and wounded out of that house
		tou'to de; ejgevneto gnwsto;n  
19:17	a.	and this became well known
		pa'sin !Ioudaivoi" te kai; $Ellhsin toi'" katoikou'sin th;n %Efeson 
	b.	to all (the) Jews as well as Greeks living in Ephesus
		kai; ejpevpesen fovbo" ejpi; pavnta" aujtou;"  
	c.	and fear came upon them all
		kai; ejmegaluvneto to; o[noma tou' kurivou !Ihsou'  
	d.	and the Name of the Lord Jesus was being honoured highly
		polloiv te tw'n pepisteukovtwn h[rconto  
19:18	a.	and then many of those having believed were coming
		ejxomologouvmenoi  
	b.	confessing
		kai; ajnaggevllonte" ta;" pravxei" aujtw'n  
	c.	and announcing their deeds
		iJkanoi; de; tw'n ta; periverga praxavntwn  
19:19	a.	further many of those having practised witchcraft
		sunenevgkante" ta;" bivblou"  
	b.	having gathered together their books
		katevkaion ejnwvpion pavntwn  
	c.	they burned (them) in front of all
		kai; suneyhvfisan ta;" tima;" aujtw'n  
	d.	and they calculated the value of them
		kai; eu|ron ajrgurivou muriavda" pevnte  
	e.	and they found (it was) five ten thousand silver coins
		ou{tw" kata; kravto" tou' kurivou oJ lovgo" hjuvxanen  
19:20	a.	thus the message of the Lord grew from power to power
		kai; i[scuen  
	b.	indeed it was strong
		wJ" de; ejplhrwvqh tau'ta  
19:21	a.	now when these things were finished
		e[qeto oJ Pau'lo" ejn tw'/ pneuvmati  
	b.	Paul made up his mind
		dielqw;n th;n Makedonivan kai; !Acai?an   
	c.	after having travelled through Macedonia and Achaia
		poreuvesqai eij" @Ierosovluma  
	d.	to go to Jerusalem
		eijpw;n o{ti  
	e.	having said that
		meta; to; genevsqai me ejkei'  
	f.	after I was there
		dei' me kai; @Rwvmhn ijdei'n  
	g.	I must also see Rome
		ajposteivla" de; eij" th;n Makedonivan  
19:22	a.	so having sent to Macedonia
		duvo tw'n diakonouvntwn aujtw'/ Timovqeon kai; %Eraston  
	b.	two of those helping him Timothy and Erastus
		aujto;" ejpevscen crovnon eij" th;n !Asivan  
	c.	he himself stayed for (a) time in Asia
		ejgevneto de; kata; to;n kairo;n ejkei'non tavraco" oujk ojlivgo" peri; th'"  
19:23	a.	now no little serious trouble happened at that time about the  
		oJdou' 
		Way
		Dhmhvtrio" gavr ti" ojnovmati ajrgurokovpo"  
19:24	a.	because (a) certain silversmith by name Demetrius
		poiw'n naou;" ajrgurou'" !Artevmido"  
	b.	making silver replica temples of Artemis
		pareivceto toi'" tecnivtai" oujk ojlivghn ejrgasivan  
	c.	was giving no little business to the craftsmen
		ou}" sunaqroivsa" kai; tou;" peri; ta; toiau'ta  
19:25	a.	who having called together also those workmen with regard to such  
		ejrgavta" 
		things
		ei\pen  
	b.	he said
		a[ndre" ejpivstasqe o{ti  
	c.	men you know that
		ejk tauvth" th'" ejrgasiva" hJ eujporiva hJmi'n ejstin  
	d.	by means of this business our prosperity exists for us
		kai; qewrei'te  
19:26	a.	and you see
		kai; ajkouvete o{ti  
	b.	and you hear that
		ouj movnon !Efevsou ajlla; scedo;n pavsh" th'" !Asiva"  
	c.	not only (the people) of Epesus but almost of the whole Asia
		oJ Pau'lo" ou|to" peivsa"  
	d.	this Paul having persuaded
		metevsthsen iJkano;n o[clon  
	e.	he misled (a) large crowd
		levgwn o{ti oujk eijsi;n qeoi;  
	f.	saying that they are not gods
		oiJ dia; ceirw'n ginovmenoi  
	g.	those coming to exist through hands
		ouj movnon de; tou'to kinduneuvei hJmi'n  
19:27	a.	further not only this is a danger to us
		to; mevro" eij" ajpelegmo;n ejlqei'n  
	b.	that the business comes to the point of serious criticism
		ajlla; kai; to; th'" megavlh" qea'" !Artevmido" iJero;n eij" oujqe;n  
	c.	but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be  
		logisqh'nai 
		considered to be nothing
		mevllein te kai; kaqairei'sqai th'" megaleiovthto" aujth'"  
	d.	as well as to be about to be deposed of her prominence
		h}n o{lh hJ !Asiva kai; hJ oijkoumevnh sevbetai  
	e.	whom the whole Asia and all mankind worship
		ajkouvsante" de;  
19:28	a.	so having heard
		kai; genovmenoi plhvrei" qumou'  
	b.	and having become full of fury
		e[krazon levgonte"  
	c.	they were shouting saying
		megavlh hJ #Artemi" !Efesivwn  
	d.	great (is) Artemis of (the) Ephesians
		kai; ejplhvsqh hJ povli" th'" sugcuvsew"  
19:29	a.	so the city was filled with uproar
		w{rmhsan te oJmoqumado;n eij" to; qevatron  
	b.	and they rushed with one mind into the theatre
		sunarpavsante" Gavi>on kai; !Arivstarcon  
	c.	having seized Gaius and Aristarchus
		Makedovna" sunekdhvmou" Pauvlou  
	d.	Macedonians travelling companions of Paul
		Pauvlou de; boulomevnou eijselqei'n eij" to;n dh'mon  
19:30	a.	now Paul wanting to go in among the gathering
		oujk ei[wn aujto;n oiJ maqhtaiv  
	b.	the disciples did not allow him
		tine;" de; kai; tw'n !Asiarcw'n  
19:31	a.	and also some of the local officials
		o[nte" aujtw'/ fivloi  
	b.	being friends to him
		pevmyante" pro;" aujto;n  
	c.	having sent to him
		parekavloun  
	d.	were appealing
		mh; dou'nai eJauto;n eij" to; qevatron  
	e.	not to allow himself (to go) into the theatre
		a[lloi me;n ou\n a[llo ti e[krazon  
19:32	a.	others then indeed shouted something else
		h\n ga;r hJ ejkklhsiva sugkecumevnh  
	b.	because the assembly had caused consternation
		kai; oiJ pleivou" oujk h[/deisan  
	c.	and the majority did not know
		tivno" e{neka sunelhluvqeisan  
	d.	on account of what they had come together
		ejk de; tou' o[clou sunebivbasan !Alevxandron  
19:33	a.	so from the crowd they instructed Alexander
		probalovntwn aujto;n tw'n !Ioudaivwn  
	b.	the Jews having put him forward
		oJ de; !Alevxandro" kataseivsa" th;n cei'ra  
	c.	then Alexander having motioned (with) his hand
		h[qelen ajpologei'sqai tw'/ dhvmw/  
	d.	he was wanting to defend himself to the gathering
		ejpignovnte" de; o{ti !Ioudai'o" ejstin  
19:34	a.	but having recognised that he is (a) Jew
		fwnh; ejgevneto miva ejk pavntwn wJ" ejpi; w{ra" duvo krazovntwn  
	b.	one voice arose from all for about two hours shouting
		megavlh hJ %Artemi" !Efesivwn  
	c.	great (is) Artemis of (the) Ephesians
		katasteivla" de; oJ grammateu;" to;n o[clon  
19:35	a.	so the town clerk having brought the crowd under control
		fhsivn  
	b.	he said
		a[ndre" !Efevsioi tiv" gavr ejstin ajnqrwvpwn  
	c.	Ephesian men who indeed is there of people
		o}" ouj ginwvskei  
	d.	who does not know
		th;n !Efesivwn povlin newkovron ou\san  
	e.	the city of (the) Ephesians being (the) temple-keeper
		th'" megavlh" !Artevmido" kai; tou' diopetou'"_  
	f.	of the great Artemis and of the stone from heaven?
		ajnantirrhvtwn ou\n o[ntwn touvtwn  
19:36	a.	these things then being indisputable
		devon ejsti;n uJma'" katestalmevnou" uJpavrcein   
	b.	it is necessary that you be brought under control
		kai; mhde;n propete;" pravssein  
	c.	and to do nothing reckless
		hjgavgete ga;r tou;" a[ndra" touvtou"  
19:37	a.	for you brought these men
		ou[te iJerosuvlou" ou[te blasfhmou'nta" th;n qeo;n hJmw'n  
	b.	neither temple robbers nor blaspheming our goddess
		eij me;n ou\n Dhmhvtrio" kai; oiJ su;n aujtw'/ tecni'tai  
19:38	a.	if indeed now Demetrius and the craftsmen with him
		e[cousi prov" tina lovgon  
	b.	have (an) accusation against someone
		ajgorai'oi a[gontai  
	c.	(the) courts are functioning
		kai; ajnquvpatoi eijsin  
	d.	and there are proconsuls
		ejgkaleivtwsan ajllhvloi"  
	e.	let them accuse one another
		eij dev ti peraitevrw ejpizhtei'te  
19:39	a.	but if you seek anything further
		ejn th'/ ejnnovmw/ ejkklhsiva/ ejpiluqhvsetai  
	b.	it will be settled in the legal assembly
		kai; ga;r kinduneuvomen   
19:40	a.	because indeed we run a risk
		ejgkalei'sqai stavsew" peri; th'" shvmeron  
	b.	to be accused of rebellion concerning today
		mhdeno;" aijtivou uJpavrconto"  
	c.	there being no reason
		peri; ou| »ouj¼ dunhsovmeqa ajpodou'nai lovgon peri; th'" sustrofh'"  tauvth" 
	d.	concerning which we will [not] be able to give account for this uproar
		kai; tau'ta eijpw;n  
	e.	and having said this
		ajpevlusen th;n ejkklhsivan  
	f.	he dismissed the assembly
		meta; de; to; pauvsasqai to;n qovrubon  
19:41	a.	so after the oproar ceased
		metapemyavmeno" oJ Pau'lo" tou;" maqhta;"  
	b.	Paul having sent for the disciples
		kai; parakalevsa"  
	c.	and having encouraged (them)
		ajspasavmeno"  
	d.	having greeted (them)
		ejxh'lqen poreuvesqai eij" Makedonivan  
	e.	he left to go to Macedonia
