		kaiv tine" katelqovnte" ajpo; th'" !Ioudaiva"  
15:1	a.	then some having come down from Judea
		ejdivdaskon tou;" ajdelfou;" o{ti  
	b.	were teaching the fellow believers that
		eja;n mh; peritmhqh'te tw'/ e[qei tw'/ Mwu>sevw"  
	c.	if you are not circumcised according to the custom of Moses
		ouj duvnasqe swqh'nai  
	d.	you can not be saved
		genomevnh" de; stavsew" kai; zhthvsew" oujk ojlivgh"  
15:2	a.	then not (a) small quarrel and dispute having taken place
		tw'/ Pauvlw/ kai; tw'/ Barnaba'/ pro;" aujtouv"  
	b.	by Paul and Barnabas against them
		e[taxan ajnabaivnein Pau'lon kai; Barnaba'n kaiv tina" a[llou" ejx  aujtw'n
	c.	they appointed Paul and Barnabas and some others from them to go up
		pro;" tou;" ajpostovlou" kai; presbutevrou" eij" !Ierousalh;m  
	d.	to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem
		peri; tou' zhthvmato" touvtou  
	e.	about this dispute
		oiJ me;n ou\n propemfqevnte" uJpo; th'" ejkklhsiva"  
15:3	a.	they then indeed having been sent on their way by the church
		dihvrconto thvn te Foinivkhn kai; Samavreian  
	b.	they were going through Phoenicia as well as Samaria
		ejkdihgouvmenoi th;n ejpistrofh;n tw'n ejqnw'n  
	c.	telling about the turning to God of the Gentiles
		kai; ejpoivoun cara;n megavlhn pa'sin toi'" ajdelfoi'"  
	d.	and they were causing great joy to all the fellow believers
		paragenovmenoi de; eij" !Ierousalh;m  
15:4	a.	so then having arrived in Jerusalem
		paredevcqhsan ajpo; th'" ejkklhsiva" kai; tw'n ajpostovlwn kai; tw'n  presbutevrwn 
	b.	they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders
		ajnhvggeilan te o{sa oJ qeo;" ejpoivhsen met! aujtw'n  
	c.	and they told how much God did through them
		ejxanevsthsan dev tine" tw'n ajpo; th'" aiJrevsew" tw'n Farisaivwn 
15:5	a.	but some of those from the religious party of the Pharisees stood up
		pepisteukovte" levgonte" o{ti   
	b.	they having been believers saying that
		dei' peritevmnein aujtou;"  
	c.	it is necessary to circumcise them
		paraggevllein te threi'n to;n novmon Mwu>sevw"  
	d.	and to order (them) to keep the Law of Moses
		sunhvcqhsan te oiJ ajpovstoloi kai; oiJ presbuvteroi  
15:6	a.	the apostles as well as the elders were gathered together
		ijdei'n peri; tou' lovgou touvtou  
	b.	to consider about this matter
		pollh'" de; zhthvsew" genomevnh"  
15:7	a.	then (a) great dispute having taken place
		ajnasta;" Pevtro"  
	b.	Peter having stood up
		ei\pen pro;" aujtouv"  
	c.	he said to them
		a[ndre" ajdelfoiv uJmei'" ejpivstasqe o{ti  
	d.	men fellow believers you know that
		ajf! hJmerw'n ajrcaivwn ejn uJmi'n ejxelevxato oJ qeo;"  
	e.	long ago God chose among you
		dia; tou' stovmato" mou ajkou'sai ta; e[qnh to;n lovgon tou' eujaggelivou    
	f.	through my mouth the Gentiles to have heard the message of the gospel
		kai; pisteu'sai  
	g.	and to have believed
		kai; oJ kardiognwvsth" qeo;" ejmartuvrhsen aujtoi'"  
15:8	a.	and God the One who knows what people think approved of them
		dou;" to; pneu'ma to; a{gion kaqw;" kai; hJmi'n  
	b.	giving (them) the Holy Spirit just as also to us
		kai; oujqe;n dievkrinen metaxu; hJmw'n te kai; aujtw'n th'/  pivstei 
15:9	a.	and He not at all distinguished between both us and them as to the faith
		kaqarivsa" ta;" kardiva" aujtw'n  
	b.	having purified their inner selves
		nu'n ou\n tiv peiravzete to;n qeo;n  
15:10	a.	now then why do you put God to the test
		ejpiqei'nai zugo;n ejpi; to;n travchlon tw'n maqhtw'n  
	b.	to place a burden on the backs of the disciples
		o}n ou[te oiJ patevre" hJmw'n ou[te hJmei'" ijscuvsamen bastavsai_  
	c.	which neither our ancestors nor we were able to endure?
		ajlla; dia; th'" cavrito" tou' kurivou !Ihsou' pisteuvomen swqh'nai 
15:11	a.	but through the grace of the Lord Jesus we believe to be saved
		kaq! o}n trovpon kakei'noi  
	b.	just like which manner also they
		ejsivghsen de; pa'n to; plh'qo"  
15:12	a.	then the whole crowd kept quiet
		kai; h[kouon Barnaba' kai; Pauvlou ejxhgoumevnwn  
	b.	and they were listening to Barnabas and Paul reporting
		o{sa ejpoivhsen oJ qeo;" shmei'a kai; tevrata ejn toi'" e[qnesin di! aujtw'n 
	c.	what signs and wonders God did among the Gentiles through them
		meta; de; to; sigh'sai aujtou;"  
15:13	a.	and after they were silent
		ajpekrivqh !Iavkwbo" levgwn  
	b.	James spoke saying
		a[ndre" ajdelfoiv ajkouvsate mou  
	c.	men fellow believers listen to me
		Sumew;n ejxhghvsato  
15:14	a.	Simeon told fully
		kaqw;" prw'ton oJ qeo;" ejpeskevyato  
	b.	how God first took care
		labei'n ejx ejqnw'n lao;n tw'/ ojnovmati aujtou'  
	c.	to take from (the) nations (a) people for His Name
		kai; touvtw/ sumfwnou'sin oiJ lovgoi tw'n profhtw'n  
15:15	a.	and the messages of the prophets agree with this
		kaqw;" gevgraptai  
	b.	just as it is written
		meta; tau'ta ajnastrevyw  
15:16	a.	after these things I will return
		kai; ajnoikodomhvsw th;n skhnh;n Daui;d th;n peptwkui'an  
	b.	and I will rebuild the tent of David the one having been destroyed
		kai; ta; kateskammevna aujth'" ajnoikodomhvsw  
	c.	and I will restore its destruction
		kai; ajnorqwvsw aujthvn  
	d.	and so I will build it up again
		o{pw" a]n ejkzhthvswsin oiJ katavloipoi tw'n ajnqrwvpwn to;n kuvrion 
15:17	a.	so that the rest of the people would seek the Lord diligently
		kai; pavnta ta; e[qnh ejf! ou}" ejpikevklhtai to; o[noma mou ejp!   aujtouv" 
	b.	indeed all the Gentiles upon whom My Name has been called upon them
		levgei kuvrio"  
	c.	says (the) Lord
		poiw'n tau'ta gnwsta; ajp! aijw'no"  
15:18	a.	making these things well known long ago
		dio; ejgw; krivnw  
15:19	a.	therefore I hold a view
		mh; parenoclei'n toi'" ajpo; tw'n ejqnw'n ejpistrevfousin ejpi; to;n qeovn 
	b.	not to cause extra difficulty for those from the Gentiles turning to God
		ajlla; ejpistei'lai aujtoi'" tou' ajpevcesqai  
15:20	a.	but to write to them a letter to abstain from
		tw'n ajlisghmavtwn tw'n eijdwvlwn  
	b.	things defiled by idols
		kai; th'" porneiva"  
	c.	and (from) sexual immorality
		kai; tou' pniktou'  
	d.	and (from) what (is) strangled
		kai; tou' ai{mato"  
	e.	and (from) blood
		Mwu>sh'" ga;r ejk genew'n ajrcaivwn kata; povlin tou;" khruvssonta"  aujto;n e[cei 
15:21	a.	because the Law of Moses has from ancient generations from city to city those preaching it
		ejn tai'" sunagwgai'" kata; pa'n savbbaton ajnaginwskovmeno" 
	b.	being read from every Sabbath to every Sabbath in the synagogues
		tovte e[doxe toi'" ajpostovloi" kai; toi'" presbutevroi"  
15:22	a.	then it seemed to the apostles and the elders
		su;n o{lh/ th'/ ejkklhsiva/  
	b.	with the whole church
		ejklexamevnou" a[ndra" ejx aujtw'n  
	c.	having chosen men from them
		pevmyai eij" !Antiovceian su;n tw'/ Pauvlw/ kai; Barnaba'/  
	d.	to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas
		!Iouvdan to;n kalouvmenon Barsabba'n kai; Sivlan    
	e.	Judas the one called Barsabbas and Silas
		a[ndra" hJgoumevnou" ejn toi'" ajdelfoi'"  
	f.	leading men among the fellow believers
		gravyante" dia; ceiro;" aujtw'n  
15:23	a.	having written by their hand
		oiJ ajpovstoloi kai; oiJ presbuvteroi ajdelfoi;  
	b.	the apostels and the elders (your) fellow believers
		toi'" kata; th;n !Antiovceian kai; Surivan kai; Kilikivan ajdelfoi'" 
	c.	to the fellow believers throughout Antioch and Syria and Cilicia
		toi'" ejx ejqnw'n  
	d.	to those from the Gentiles
		caivrein  
	e.	greetings
		ejpeidh; hjkouvsamen o{ti  
15:24	a.	because we heard that
		tine;" ejx hJmw'n »ejxelqovnte"¼  
	b.	some from us [having gone out]
		ejtavraxan uJma'" lovgoi"  
	c.	distressed you with words
		ajnaskeuavzonte" ta;" yuca;" uJmw'n  
	d.	upsetting your minds
		oi|" ouj diesteilavmeqa  
	e.	to whom we did not give instructions
		e[doxen hJmi'n genomevnoi" oJmoqumado;n  
15:25	a.	it seemed to us having become with one mind
		ejklexamevnoi" a[ndra"  
	b.	having chosen men
		pevmyai pro;" uJma'"  
	c.	to send (them) to you
		su;n toi'" ajgaphtoi'" hJmw'n Barnaba'/ kai; Pauvlw/  
	d.	with our beloved Barnabas and Paul
		ajnqrwvpoi" paradedwkovsi ta;" yuca;" aujtw'n  
15:26	a.	men having risked their lives
		uJpe;r tou' ojnovmato" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	b.	for the sake of the Name of our Lord Jesus Christ
		ajpestavlkamen ou\n !Iouvdan kai; Sila'n  
15:27	a.	we have therefore sent Judas and Silas
		kai; aujtou;" dia; lovgou ajpaggevllonta" ta; aujtav  
	b.	they indeed telling through words the same things
		e[doxen ga;r tw'/ pneuvmati tw'/ aJgivw/ kai; hJmi'n  
15:28	a.	for it seemed to the Holy Spirit and to us
		mhde;n plevon ejpitivqesqai uJmi'n bavro" plh;n touvtwn tw'n ejpavnagke" 
	b.	to subject you to no greater burden except these necessary things
		ajpevcesqai eijdwloquvtwn  
15:29	a.	to abstain from meat of animals sacrificed to an idol
		kai; ai{mato"  
	b.	and (from) blood
		kai; pniktw'n  
	c.	and (from) strangled (animals)
		kai; porneiva"  
	d.	and (from) sexual immorality
		ejx w|n diathrou'nte" eJautou;"  
	e.	from which keeping yourselves from doing
		eu\ pravxete  
	f.	you will do well
		e[rrwsqe   
	g.	with best wishes
		oiJ me;n ou\n ajpoluqevnte"  
15:30	a.	they then indeed having been sent off
		kath'lqon eij" !Antiovceian  
	b.	they went down to Antioch
		kai; sunagagovnte" to; plh'qo"  
	c.	and having gathered together the group
		ejpevdwkan th;n ejpistolhvn  
	d.	they delivered the letter
		ajnagnovnte" de; ejcavrhsan ejpi; th'/ paraklhvsei  
15:31	a.	then having read (it) they rejoiced because of the encouragement
		!Iouvda" te kai; Sila'" kai; aujtoi; profh'tai o[nte"   
15:32	a.	Judas as well as Silas also being prophets themselves
		dia; lovgou pollou' parekavlesan tou;" ajdelfou;"   
	b.	encouraged the fellow believers by much speaking
		kai; ejpesthvrixan  
	c.	and so they strengthened (them)
		poihvsante" de; crovnon  
15:33	a.	then having spent time
		ajpeluvqhsan met! eijrhvnh" ajpo; tw'n ajdelfw'n  
	b.	they were sent off with peace by the fellow believers
		pro;" tou;" ajposteivlanta" aujtouv"  
	c.	to the ones having sent them
		Pau'lo" de; kai; Barnaba'" dievtribon ejn !Antioceiva/  
15:35	a.	but Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch
		didavskonte" kai; eujaggelizovmenoi  
	b.	teaching and proclaiming the good news
		meta; kai; eJtevrwn pollw'n to;n lovgon tou' kurivou  
	c.	with indeed many others the message of the Lord
		meta; dev tina" hJmevra" ei\pen pro;" Barnaba'n Pau'lo"  
15:36	a.	then after some days Paul said to Barnabas
		ejpistrevyante" dh;  
	b.	having returned then
		ejpiskeywvmeqa tou;" ajdelfou;" kata; povlin pa'san  
	c.	let us visit the fellow believers from every city to every city
		ejn ai|" kathggeivlamen to;n lovgon tou' kurivou  
	d.	in which we proclaimed the message of the Lord
		pw'" e[cousin  
	e.	(to see) how they are
		Barnaba'" de; ejbouvleto sumparalabei'n kai; to;n !Iwavnnhn  
15:37	a.	now Barnabas wanted to take along also John
		to;n kalouvmenon Ma'rkon  
	b.	the one called Mark
		Pau'lo" de; hjxivou   
15:38	a.	but Paul preferred
		to;n ajpostavnta ajp! aujtw'n ajpo; Pamfuliva"  
	b.	him having turned away from them from Pamphylia
		kai; mh; sunelqovnta aujtoi'" eij" to; e[rgon  
	c.	and not having gone with them to the work
		mh; sumparalambavnein tou'ton   
	d.	not to take him along
		ejgevneto de; paroxusmo;"  
15:39	a.	so (a) sharp argument took place
		w{ste ajpocwrisqh'nai aujtou;" ajp! ajllhvlwn  
	b.	with the result that they were split up from each other
		tovn te Barnaba'n paralabovnta to;n Ma'rkon  
	c.	and then Barnabas having taken along Mark
		ejkpleu'sai eij" Kuvpron  
	d.	sailed away to Cyprus
		Pau'lo" de; ejpilexavmeno" Sila'n  
15:40	a.	but Paul having chosen Silas
		ejxh'lqen  
	b.	he went away
		paradoqei;" th'/ cavriti tou' kurivou uJpo; tw'n ajdelfw'n 
	c.	having been entrusted to the grace of the Lord by the fellow believers
		dihvrceto de; th;n Surivan kai; »th;n¼ Kilikivan  
15:41	a.	and he went through Syria and Cilicia
		ejpisthrivzwn ta;" ejkklhsiva"  
	b.	strengthening the churches
