		ejgevneto de; ejn !Ikonivw/ kata; to; aujto; eijselqei'n aujtou;" eij" th;n  sunagwgh;n tw'n !Ioudaivwn 
14:1	a.	then it happened in Iconium according to the same that they went into the synagogue of the Jews
		kai; lalh'sai ou{tw"  
	b.	and spoke in this way
		w{ste pisteu'sai !Ioudaivwn te kai; @Ellhvnwn polu; plh'qo"  
	c.	so that (a) big group of Jews as well as Greeks believed
		oiJ de; ajpeiqhvsante" !Ioudai'oi ejphvgeiran  
14:2	a.	but those Jews refusing to believe stirred up
		kai; ejkavkwsan ta;" yuca;" tw'n ejqnw'n kata; tw'n ajdelfw'n  
	b.	and turned the Gentiles against the fellow believers
		iJkano;n me;n ou\n crovnon dievtriyan  
14:3	a.	and so then they stayed for (a) long time
		parrhsiazovmenoi ejpi; tw'/ kurivw/  
	b.	speaking boldly about the Lord
		tw'/ marturou'nti »ejpi;¼ tw'/ lovgw/ th'" cavrito" aujtou'  
	c.	the One witnessing [to] the message of His grace
		didovnti shmei'a kai; tevrata givnesqai dia; tw'n ceirw'n aujtw'n  
	d.	by causing signs and wonders to happen through their power
		ejscivsqh de; to; plh'qo" th'" povlew"  
14:4	a.	but the people of the city were divided
		kai; oiJ me;n h\san su;n toi'" !Ioudaivoi"  
	b.	now some then were with the Jews
		oiJ de; su;n toi'" ajpostovloi"  
	c.	and others with the apostles
		wJ" de; ejgevneto oJrmh; tw'n ejqnw'n   
14:5	a.	but when there was a desire of the Gentiles
		te kai; !Ioudaivwn su;n toi'" a[rcousin aujtw'n  
	b.	as well as of Jews together with their rulers
		uJbrivsai kai; liqobolh'sai aujtouv"  
	c.	to maltreat and stone them
		sunidovnte"  
14:6	a.	having found out about (it)
		katevfugon eij" ta;" povlei" th'" Lukaoniva" Luvstran kai; Devrbhn 
	b.	they fled to the cities of Lycaonia Lystra and Derbe
		kai; th;n perivcwron  
	c.	and the surrounding region
		kakei' eujaggelizovmenoi h\san  
14:7	a.	and they were there telling the good news
		kaiv ti" ajnh;r ajduvnato" ejn Luvstroi" toi'" posi;n  ejkavqhto 
14:8	a.	then (a) certain man in Lystra incapable with regard to his feet was sitting
		cwlo;" ejk koiliva" mhtro;" aujtou'  
	b.	lame since his mother's womb
		o}" oujdevpote periepavthsen  
	c.	who never walked
		ou|to" h[kousen tou' Pauvlou lalou'nto"  
14:9	a.	this one heard Paul speaking
		o}" ajtenivsa" aujtw'/  
	b.	who having looked straight at him
		kai; ijdw;n o{ti  
	c.	and having seen that
		e[cei pivstin tou' swqh'nai  
	d.	he has faith to be healed
		ei\pen megavlh/ fwnh'/  
14:10	a.	he said with (a) loud voice
		ajnavsthqi ejpi; tou;" povda" sou ojrqov"  
	b.	stand up straight on your feet
		kai; h{lato  
	c.	then he jumped up
		kai; periepavtei  
	d.	and he was walking
		oi{ te o[cloi ijdovnte" o} ejpoivhsen Pau'lo"  
14:11	a.	and then the crowds having seen what Paul did
		ejph'ran th;n fwnh;n aujtw'n Lukaonisti; levgonte"  
	b.	raised their voices speaking in Lycaonian
		oiJ qeoi; oJmoiwqevnte" ajnqrwvpoi" katevbhsan pro;" hJma'"  
	c.	the gods having resembled people came down to us
		ejkavloun te to;n Barnaba'n Diva  
14:12	a.	thus they were calling Barnabas Zeus
		to;n de; Pau'lon @Ermh'n  
	b.	and Paul Hermes
		ejpeidh; aujto;" h\n oJ hJgouvmeno" tou' lovgou   
	c.	since he was the one leading in the speaking
		o{ te iJereu;"  
14:13	a.	and then the priest
		tou' Dio;" tou' o[nto" pro; th'" povlew"  
	b.	of Zeus the one being in front of the city
		tauvrou" kai; stevmmata ejpi; tou;" pulw'na" ejnevgka"  
	c.	having brought bulls and wreaths to the gates
		su;n toi'" o[cloi" h[qelen quvein  
	d.	he wanted to make a sacrifice together with the crowds
		ajkouvsante" de; oiJ ajpovstoloi Barnaba'" kai; Pau'lo"  
14:14	a.	but the apostles Barnabas and Paul having heard (this)
		diarrhvxante" ta; iJmavtia aujtw'n  
	b.	having torn their clothes
		ejxephvdhsan eij" to;n o[clon kravzonte"  
	c.	they rushed out into the crowd shouting
		kai; levgonte"  
14:15	a.	and saying
		a[ndre" tiv tau'ta poiei'te_  
	b.	men why are you doing these things?
		kai; hJmei'" oJmoiopaqei'" ejsmen uJmi'n  a[nqrwpoi 
	c.	we too are human beings (having the) same kind of feelings with you
		eujaggelizovmenoi uJma'"  
	d.	bringing you the good news
		ajpo; touvtwn tw'n mataivwn ejpistrevfein ejpi; qeo;n zw'nta   
	e.	to turn away from these futile things to (the) living God
		o}" ejpoivhsen to;n oujrano;n kai; th;n gh'n  
	f.	Who made the heaven and the earth
		kai; th;n qavlassan kai; pavnta ta; ejn aujtoi'"  
	g.	and the sea and all things in them
		o}" ejn tai'" parw/chmevnai" geneai'"  
14:16	a.	Who during past generations
		ei[asen pavnta ta; e[qnh poreuvesqai tai'" oJdoi'" aujtw'n  
	b.	allowed all the nations to go their ways
		kaivtoi oujk ajmavrturon aujto;n ajfh'ken  
14:17	a.	even though He did not leave himself without witness
		ajgaqourgw'n  
	b.	doing good
		oujranovqen uJmi'n uJetou;" didou;" kai; kairou;" karpofovrou"  
	c.	giving you from the sky rains and fruitful periods of time
		ejmpiplw'n trofh'" kai; eujfrosuvnh" ta;" kardiva" uJmw'n  
	d.	filling your inner selves with food and joyfulness
		kai; tau'ta levgonte"  
14:18	a.	now saying these things
		movli" katevpausan tou;" o[clou" tou' mh; quvein aujtoi'"  
	b.	they with difficulty stopped the crowds not to sacrifice to them
		ejph'lqan de; ajpo; !Antioceiva" kai; !Ikonivou !Ioudai'oi  
14:19	a.	then Jews arrived from Antioch and Iconium
		kai; peivsante" tou;" o[clou"  
	b.	and having persuaded the crowds
		kai; liqavsante" to;n Pau'lon  
	c.	and having stoned Paul
		e[suron e[xw th'" povlew"  
	d.	they dragged (him) out of the city
		nomivzonte" aujto;n teqnhkevnai  
	e.	thinking that he was dead
		kuklwsavntwn de; tw'n maqhtw'n aujto;n  
14:20	a.	but the disciples having surrounded him
		ajnasta;"  
	b.	he having stood up
		eijsh'lqen eij" th;n povlin  
	c.	he went into the city
		kai; th'/ ejpauvrion ejxh'lqen su;n tw'/ Barnaba'/ eij" Devrbhn  
14:20	d.	and on the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe
		eujaggelisavmenoi te th;n povlin ejkeivnhn  
14:21	a.	then having brought the good news (to) that city
		kai; maqhteuvsante" iJkanou;"  
	b.	and having made many disciples
		uJpevstreyan eij" th;n Luvstran kai; eij" !Ikovnion kai; eij" !Antiovceian 
	c.	they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch
		ejpisthrivzonte" ta;" yuca;" tw'n maqhtw'n  
14:22	a.	strengthening the inner selves of the disciples
		parakalou'nte" ejmmevnein th'/ pivstei  
	b.	encouraging (them) to continue in the faith
		kai; o{ti dia; pollw'n qlivyewn  
	c.	and that through many sufferings
		dei' hJma'" eijselqei'n eij" th;n basileivan tou' qeou'  
	d.	we must enter into the Kingdom of God
		ceirotonhvsante" de; aujtoi'" kat! ejkklhsivan presbutevrou"  
14:23	a.	then having appointed for them elders from church to church
		proseuxavmenoi meta; nhsteiw'n   
	b.	having prayed with fastings
		parevqento aujtou;" tw'/ kurivw/  
	c.	they entrusted them to the Lord
		eij" o}n pepisteuvkeisan  
	d.	in Whom they had believed
		kai; dielqovnte" th;n Pisidivan  
14:24	a.	and having gone through Pisidia
		h\lqon eij" th;n Pamfulivan  
	b.	they came to Pamphylia
		kai; lalhvsante" ejn Pevrgh/ to;n lovgon  
14:25	a.	and having spoken the message in Perga
		katevbhsan eij" !Attavleian  
	b.	they went down to Attalia
		kakei'qen ajpevpleusan eij" !Antiovceian  
14:26	a.	and from there they sailed away to Antioch
		o{qen h\san paradedomevnoi th'/ cavriti tou' qeou'  
	b.	from where they were committed to the grace of God
		eij" to; e[rgon o} ejplhvrwsan  
	c.	for the work which they completed
		paragenovmenoi de;  
14:27	a.	then having arrived
		kai; sunagagovnte" th;n ejkklhsivan  
	b.	and having gathered the church together
		ajnhvggellon  
	c.	they were reporting
		o{sa ejpoivhsen oJ qeo;" met! aujtw'n  
	d.	how much God did through them
		kai; o{ti h[noixen toi'" e[qnesin quvran pivstew"  
	e.	and that He opened for the Gentiles (a) door of faith
		dievtribon de; crovnon oujk ojlivgon su;n toi'" maqhtai'"  
14:28	a.	and then they were staying not for a short time with the disciples
