		wJ" de; ejgevneto ajnacqh'nai hJma'"   
21:1	a.	so when it happened that we set sail
		ajpospasqevnta" ajp! aujtw'n  
	b.	having been pulled away from them
		eujqudromhvsante" h[lqomen eij" th;n Kw'  
	c.	having sailed a straight course we came to Cos
		th'/ de; eJxh'" eij" th;n @Rovdon  
	d.	and the next day to Rhodes
		kakei'qen eij" Pavtara  
	e.	and from there to Patara
		kai; euJrovnte" ploi'on diaperw'n eij" Foinivkhn  
21:2	a.	then having found (a) ship crossing over to Phoenicia
		ejpibavnte"  
	b.	having gone aboard
		ajnhvcqhmen  
	c.	we set sail
		ajnafavnante" de; th;n Kuvpron  
21:3	a.	and having come into view of Cyprus
		kai; katalipovnte" aujth;n eujwvnumon  
	b.	and having left it behind on the left
		ejplevomen eij" Surivan  
	c.	we were sailing to Syria
		kai; kathvlqomen eij" Tuvron  
	d.	and we arrived at land at Tyre
		ejkei'se ga;r to; ploi'on h\n ajpofortizovmenon to;n govmon  
	e.	because there the ship was unloading its cargo
		ajneurovnte" de; tou;" maqhta;"  
21:4	a.	so having looked for and found the disciples
		ejpemeivnamen aujtou' hJmevra" eJptav  
	b.	we stayed there for seven days
		oi{tine" tw'/ Pauvlw/ e[legon dia; tou' pneuvmato"  
	c.	who spoke to Paul through the Spirit
		mh; ejpibaivnein eij" @Ierosovluma  
	d.	not to go on to Jerusalem
		o{te de; ejgevneto hJma'" ejxartivsai ta;" hJmevra"   
21:5	a.	and when it happened that our days ended
		ejxelqovnte" ejporeuovmeqa  
	b.	having gone out we were leaving
		propempovntwn hJma'" pavntwn su;n gunaixi; kai; tevknoi"  
	c.	all accompanying us with (their) wives and children
		e{w" e[xw th'" povlew"  
	d.	as far as outside the city
		kai; qevnte" ta; govnata ejpi; to;n aijgialo;n proseuxavmenoi  
	e.	then having knelt down on the beach having prayed
		ajphspasavmeqa ajllhvlou"  
21:6	a.	we said goodbye to each other
		kai; ajnevbhmen eij" to; ploi'on  
	b.	and we went on board on the ship
		ejkei'noi de; uJpevstreyan eij" ta; i[dia  
	c.	and they returned to their homes
		hJmei'" de; to;n plou'n dianuvsante" ajpo; Tuvrou  
21:7	a.	we then having completed the sailing from Tyre
		kathnthvsamen eij" Ptolemai?da   
	b.	we arrived at Ptolemais
		kai; ajspasavmenoi tou;" ajdelfou;"  
	c.	and having greeted the fellow believers
		ejmeivnamen hJmevran mivan par! aujtoi'"  
	d.	we stayed with them for one day
		th'/ de; ejpauvrion ejxelqovnte"  
21:8	a.	then having left on the next day
		h[lqomen eij" Kaisavreian  
	b.	we arrived at Caesarea
		kai; eijselqovnte" eij" to;n oi\kon Filivppou tou' eujaggelistou'  
	c.	and having gone into the house of Philip the evangelist
		o[nto" ejk tw'n eJptav  
	d.	being one of the seven
		ejmeivnamen par! aujtw'/  
	e.	we stayed with him
		touvtw/ de; h\san qugatevre" tevssare" parqevnoi profhteuvousai 
21:9	a.	now for this one there was four unmarried daughters prophesying
		ejpimenovntwn de; hJmevra" pleivou"  
21:10	a.	then staying for more days
		kath'lqen ti" ajpo; th'" !Ioudaiva" profhvth" ojnovmati $Agabo"  
	b.	(a) certain prophet by name Agabus came down from Judea
		kai; ejlqw;n pro;" hJma'"   
21:11	a.	and then having arrived where we are
		kai; a[ra" th;n zwvnhn tou' Pauvlou  
	b.	and having taken the belt of Paul
		dhvsa" eJautou' tou;" povda" kai; ta;" cei'ra"  
	c.	having tied up his own feet and hands
		ei\pen tavde  
	d.	he said these things
		levgei to; pneu'ma to; a{gion  
	e.	the Holy Spirit says
		to;n a[ndra ou| ejstin hJ zwvnh au{th  
	f.	the man whose belt this is
		ou{tw" dhvsousin ejn !Ierousalh;m oiJ !Ioudai'oi  
	g.	in this way the Jews will tie (him) up in Jerusalem
		kai; paradwvsousin eij" cei'ra" ejqnw'n  
	h.	and they will deliver (him) over into (the) hands of (the) Gentiles
		wJ" de; hjkouvsamen tau'ta  
21:12	a.	so when we heard these things
		parekalou'men hJmei'" te kai; oiJ ejntovpioi  
	b.	we as well as the local people pleaded
		tou' mh; ajnabaivnein aujto;n eij" !Ierousalhvm  
	c.	that he should not go up to Jerusalem
		tovte ajpekrivqh oJ Pau'lo"  
21:13	a.	then Paul answered
		tiv poiei'te klaivonte" kai; sunqruvptonte" mou th;n kardivan_  
	b.	what are you doing weeping and causing me great sorrow?
		ejgw; ga;r ouj movnon deqh'nai   
	c.	because I not only to be tied up
		ajlla; kai; ajpoqanei'n eij" !Ierousalh;m  
	d.	but also to die in Jerusalem
		eJtoivmw" e[cw uJpe;r tou' ojnovmato" tou' kurivou !Ihsou'  
	e.	I am ready for the sake of the Name of the Lord Jesus
		mh; peiqomevnou de; aujtou'  
21:14	a.	so he not being persuaded
		hJsucavsamen  
	b.	we remained quiet
		eijpovnte"  
	c.	having said
		tou' kurivou to; qevlhma ginevsqw  
	d.	let the will of the Lord happen
		meta; de; ta;" hJmevra" tauvta" ejpiskeuasavmenoi  
21:15	a.	so after these days having got ready
		ajnebaivnomen eij" @Ierosovluma  
	b.	we were going up to Jerusalem
		sunh'lqon de; kai; tw'n maqhtw'n ajpo; Kaisareiva" su;n hJmi'n  
21:16	a.	then also (some) of the disciples from Caesarea went with us
		a[gonte" par! w|/ xenisqw'men Mnavswni  
	b.	bringing (us) to Mnason with whom we could stay
		tini Kuprivw/ ajrcaivw/ maqhth'/  
	c.	a certain Cyprian (a) disciple for a long time
		genomevnwn de; hJmw'n eij" @Ierosovluma  
21:17	a.	then we having come to be in Jerusalem
		ajsmevnw" ajpedevxanto hJma'" oiJ ajdelfoiv  
	b.	the fellow believers welcomed us gladly
		th'/ de; ejpiouvsh/ eijshv/ei oJ Pau'lo" su;n hJmi'n pro;" !Iavkwbon  
21:18	a.	and on the next day Paul was going in with us to James
		pavnte" te paregevnonto oiJ presbuvteroi  
	b.	and all the elders came to be present
		kai; ajspasavmeno" aujtou;"  
21:19	a.	then having greeted them
		ejxhgei'to kaq! e}n e{kaston  
	b.	he was telling fully each thing one by one
		w|n ejpoivhsen oJ qeo;" ejn toi'" e[qnesin dia; th'" diakoniva" aujtou'  
	c.	of what God did for the Gentiles through his ministry
		oiJ de; ajkouvsante"  
21:20	a.	and they having heard
		ejdovxazon to;n qeo;n  
	b.	they were praising God
		ei\pon te aujtw'/  
	c.	and they said to him
		qewrei'" ajdelfev povsai muriavde" eijsi;n  
	d.	you see fellow believer how many countless (people) there are
		ejn toi'" !Ioudaivoi" tw'n pepisteukovtwn  
	e.	among the Jews of those having believed
		kai; pavnte" zhlwtai; tou' novmou uJpavrcousin  
	f.	indeed all are enthusiasts for the Law
		kathchvqhsan de; peri; sou' o{ti   
21:21	a.	now they were informed about you that
		ajpostasivan didavskei" ajpo; Mwu>sevw" tou;" kata; ta; e[qnh pavnta"   !Ioudaivou"  
	b.	you teach all (the) Jews among the Gentiles rebellion away from the Law of Moses
		levgwn  
	c.	telling
		mh; peritevmnein aujtou;" ta; tevkna  
	d.	them not to circumcise their children
		mhde; toi'" e[qesin peripatei'n  
	e.	and not to live by their customs
		tiv ou\n ejstin_  
21:22	a.	what then is it?
		pavntw" ajkouvsontai o{ti ejlhvluqa"  
	b.	they will certainly hear that you have arrived
		tou'to ou\n poivhson o{ soi levgomen  
21:23	a.	do therefore this what we tell you
		eijsi;n hJmi'n a[ndre" tevssare" eujch;n e[conte" ejf! eJautw'n  
	b.	for us there are four men having (a) vow on them
		touvtou" paralabw;n  
21:24	a.	having taken these ones along
		aJgnivsqhti su;n aujtoi'"  
	b.	be purified with them
		kai; dapavnhson ejp! aujtoi'"  
	c.	and pay the expenses for them
		i{na xurhvsontai th;n kefalhvn  
	d.	so that they may shave the head
		kai; gnwvsontai pavnte" o{ti  
	e.	then all will know that
		w|n kathvchntai peri; sou'  
	f.	what they have been told about you
		oujdevn ejstin  
	g.	is nothing
		ajlla; stoicei'" kai; aujto;" fulavsswn to;n novmon  
	h.	but you yourself also live obeying the Law
		peri; de; tw'n pepisteukovtwn ejqnw'n  
21:25	a.	further concerning the Gentiles having believed
		hJmei'" ejpesteivlamen krivnante"  
	b.	we wrote a letter having decided
		fulavssesqai aujtou;" tov te eijdwlovquton  
	c.	they then should abstain from meat sacrificed to idols
		kai; ai|ma  
	d.	and (from) blood
		kai; pnikto;n  
	e.	and (from what is) strangled
		kai; porneivan  
	f.	and (from) sexual immorality
		tovte oJ Pau'lo" paralabw;n tou;" a[ndra"  
21:26	a.	then Paul having taken along the men
		th'/ ejcomevnh/ hJmevra/ su;n aujtoi'" aJgnisqeiv"  
	b.	having been purified on the next day with them
		eijshv/ei eij" to; iJero;n  
	c.	he was going into the temple
		diaggevllwn th;n ejkplhvrwsin tw'n hJmerw'n tou' aJgnismou'  
	d.	giving notice of the completion of the days of the purification
		e{w" ou| proshnevcqh uJpe;r eJno;" eJkavstou aujtw'n hJ prosforav  
	e.	when the sacrifice for each one of them would be presented
		wJ" de; e[mellon aiJ eJpta; hJmevrai suntelei'sqai  
21:27	a.	so when the seven days were about to be completed
		oiJ ajpo; th'" !Asiva" !Ioudai'oi qeasavmenoi aujto;n ejn tw'/ iJerw'/  
	b.	the Jews from Asia having seen him in the temple
		sunevceon pavnta to;n o[clon  
	c.	they were throwing the whole crowd into consternation
		kai; ejpevbalon ejp! aujto;n ta;" cei'ra"  
	d.	and they seized him
		kravzonte"  
21:28	a.	shouting
		a[ndre" !Israhli'tai bohqei'te  
	b.	men Israelites help
		ou|to" ejstin oJ a[nqrwpo"  
	c.	this is the man
		oJ kata; tou' laou' kai; tou' novmou kai; tou' tovpou touvtou  
	d.	the one against the people and the Law and this place
		pavnta" pantach'/ didavskwn  
	e.	he is teaching all everywhere
		e[ti te kai;; $Ellhna" eijshvgagen eij" to; iJero;n  
	f.	and also in addition he brought Greeks into the temple
		kai; kekoivnwken to;n a{gion tovpon tou'ton  
	g.	indeed he has defiled this holy place
		h\san ga;r proewrakovte" Trovfimon to;n !Efevsion ejn th'/ povlei su;n  aujtw'/ 
21:29	a.	because they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him
		o}n ejnovmizon o{ti  
	b.	whom they were supposing that
		eij" to; iJero;n eijshvgagen oJ Pau'lo"  
	c.	Paul took (him) into the temple
		ejkinhvqh te hJ povli" o{lh  
21:30	a.	so then the whole city was stirred up
		kai; ejgevneto sundromh; tou' laou'  
	b.	and there was (a) running together of the people
		kai; ejpilabovmenoi tou' Pauvlou   
	c.	then having taken hold of Paul
		ei|lkon aujto;n e[xw tou' iJerou'  
	d.	they were dragging him out of the temple
		kai; eujqevw" ejkleivsqhsan aiJ quvrai  
	e.	and at once the gates were shut
		zhtouvntwn te aujto;n ajpoktei'nai  
21:31	a.	then while trying to kill him
		ajnevbh favsi" tw'/ ciliavrcw/ th'" speivrh" o{ti  
	b.	news went up to the commanding officer of the cohort that
		o{lh sugcuvnnetai !Ierousalhvm  
	c.	(the) whole Jerusalem was thrown into confusion
		o}" ejxauth'" paralabw;n stratiwvta" kai; eJkatontavrca"  
21:32	a.	who having immediately taken along soldiers and centurions
		katevdramen ejp! aujtouv"  
	b.	he ran down to them
		oiJ de; ijdovnte" to;n cilivarcon kai; tou;" stratiwvta"  
	c.	but they having seen the commanding officer and the soldiers
		ejpauvsanto tuvptonte" to;n Pau'lon  
	d.	they stopped beating Paul
		tovte ejggivsa" oJ cilivarco"  
21:33	a.	then the commanding officer having come close
		ejpelavbeto aujtou'  
	b.	he arrested him
		kai; ejkevleusen  
	c.	and he ordered
		deqh'nai aJluvsesi dusiv  
	d.	(that) he be bound with two chains
		kai; ejpunqavneto  
	e.	and he was enquiring
		tiv" ei[h  
	f.	who he could be
		kai; tiv ejstin pepoihkwv"  
	g.	and what it is he had done
		a[lloi de; a[llo ti ejpefwvnoun ejn tw'/ o[clw/  
21:34	a.	but in the crowd others were shouting something other
		mh; dunamevnou de; aujtou' gnw'nai to; ajsfale;" dia; to;n qovrubon    
	b.	and when he not being able to find out the truth because of the uproar
		ejkevleusen a[gesqai aujto;n eij" th;n parembolhvn   
	c.	he ordered him to be brought into the soldiers' quarters
		o{te de; ejgevneto ejpi; tou;" ajnabaqmouv"  
21:35	a.	and when he came to be at the stairs
		sunevbh bastavzesqai aujto;n uJpo; tw'n stratiwtw'n  
	b.	it happened that he was carried by the soldiers
		dia; th;n bivan tou' o[clou  
	c.	because of the violence of the crowd
		hjkolouvqei ga;r to; plh'qo" tou' laou'  
21:36	a.	because the multitude of the crowd was following
		kravzonte"  
	b.	shouting
		ai\re aujtovn  
	c.	kill him
		mevllwn te eijsavgesqai eij" th;n parembolh;n  
21:37	a.	and then being about to be carried into the soldiers' quarters
		oJ Pau'lo" levgei tw'/ ciliavrcw/  
	b.	Paul says to the commanding officer
		eij e[xestin moi eijpei'n ti pro;" sev_  
	c.	is it permitted for me to say something to you?
		oJ de; e[fh  
	d.	and he said
		@Ellhnisti; ginwvskei"_   
	e.	do you know Greek?
		oujk a[ra su; ei\ oJ !Aiguvptio"  
21:38	a.	are you perhaps not the Egyptian
		oJ pro; touvtwn tw'n hJmerw'n ajnastatwvsa"  
	b.	the one having stirred up a revolt before these days
		kai; ejxagagw;n eij" th;n e[rhmon tou;" tetrakiscilivou" a[ndra" tw'n  
	c.	and having led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the  
		sikarivwn_ 
		terrorists?
		ei\pen de; oJ Pau'lo"  
21:39	a.	but Paul said
		ejgw; a[nqrwpo" mevn eijmi !Ioudai'o" Tarseu;" th'" Kilikiva"  
	b.	I am indeed (a) Jewish man from Tarsus in Cilicia
		oujk ajshvmou povlew" polivth"  
	c.	(a) citizen of (a) not insignificant city
		devomai dev sou  
	d.	now I beg you
		ejpivtreyon moi lalh'sai pro;" to;n laovn  
	e.	allow me to speak to the people
		ejpitrevyanto" de; aujtou'  
21:40	a.	so he having allowed
		oJ Pau'lo" eJstw;" ejpi; tw'n ajnabaqmw'n  
	b.	Paul standing on the stairs
		katevseisen th'/ ceiri; tw'/ law'/  
	c.	he gave a signal with his hand to the people
		pollh'" de; sigh'" genomevnh"  
	d.	now (a) great silence having come
		prosefwvnhsen th'/ @Ebrai?di dialevktw/ levgwn   
	e.	he addressed (them) in the Hebrew language saying
		a[ndre" ajdelfoi; kai; patevre"  

