		meta; tau'ta cwrisqei;" ejk tw'n !Aqhnw'n  
18:1	a.	after these things having departed from Athens
		h\lqen eij" Kovrinqon  
	b.	he went to Corinth
		kai; euJrwvn tina !Ioudai'on ojnovmati !Akuvlan  
18:2	a.	and having found a certain Jew by name Aquila
		Pontiko;n tw'/ gevnei  
	b.	(a) Pontian as to race
		prosfavtw" ejlhluqovta ajpo; th'" !Italiva"  
	c.	having recently come from Italy
		kai; Privskillan gunai'ka aujtou'  
	d.	as well as Priscilla his wife
		dia; to; diatetacevnai Klauvdion  
	e.	because Claudius had commanded
		cwrivzesqai pavnta" tou;" !Ioudaivou" ajpo; th'" @Rwvmh"  
	f.	all the Jews to leave from Rome
		prosh'lqen aujtoi'"  
	g.	he approached them
		kai; dia; to; oJmovtecnon ei\nai  
18:3	a.	and because of to be of the same trade
		e[menen par! aujtoi'"  
	b.	he was staying with them
		kai; hjrgavzeto  
	c.	and he was working
		h\san ga;r skhnopoioi; th'/ tevcnh/  
	d.	because they were tentmakers by occupation
		dielevgeto de; ejn th'/ sunagwgh'/ kata; pa'n savbbaton   
18:4	a.	then he was arguing in the synagogue during every Sabbath
		e[peiqen te !Ioudaivou" kai; $Ellhna"  
	b.	he was persuading Jews as well as Greeks
		wJ" de; kath'lqon ajpo; th'" Makedoniva" o{ te Sila'" kai; oJ Timovqeo" 
18:5	a.	so when Silas as well as Timothy arrived at land from Macedonia
		suneivceto tw'/ lovgw/ oJ Pau'lo"  
	b.	Paul was continuing to apply himself to the message
		diamarturovmeno" toi'" !Ioudaivoi"  
	c.	testifying to the Jews
		ei\nai to;n Cristo;n !Ihsou'n  
	d.	that Jesus is the Messiah
		ajntitassomevnwn de; aujtw'n  
18:6	a.	but they being hostile
		kai; blasfhmouvntwn  
	b.	and slandering
		ejktinaxavmeno" ta; iJmavtia  
	c.	having shaken out his clothes
		ei\pen pro;" aujtouv"  
	d.	he said to them
		to; ai|ma uJmw'n ejpi; th;n kefalh;n uJmw'n   
	e.	your blood (is) on your head
		kaqaro;" ejgw;  
	f.	I (am) pure
		ajpo; tou' nu'n eij" ta; e[qnh poreuvsomai  
	g.	from now on I am going to the Gentiles
		kai; metaba;" ejkei'qen  
18:7	a.	then having departed from there
		eijsh'lqen eij" oijkivan tino;" ojnovmati Titivou !Iouvstou  
	b.	he went into (the) house of someone by name Titius Justus
		sebomevnou to;n qeovn  
	c.	(who) was worshipping God
		ou| hJ oijkiva h\n sunomorou'sa th'/ sunagwgh'/  
	d.	whose house was next to the synagogue
		Krivspo" de; oJ ajrcisunavgwgo"  
18:8	a.	now Crispus the leader of the synagogue
		ejpivsteusen tw'/ kurivw/ su;n o{lw/ tw'/ oi[kw/ aujtou'  
	b.	believed in the Lord with his whole household
		kai; polloi; tw'n Korinqivwn ajkouvonte"  
	c.	and many of the Corinthians hearing
		ejpivsteuon kai; ejbaptivzonto  
	d.	believed and were baptised
		ei\pen de; oJ kuvrio" ejn nukti; di! oJravmato" tw'/ Pauvlw/  
18:9	a.	so the Lord said in (the) night through (a) vision to Paul
		mh; fobou'  
	b.	do not fear
		ajlla; lavlei  
	c.	but speak
		kai; mh; siwphvsh/"  
	d.	and do not be silent
		diovti ejgwv eijmi meta; sou'  
18:10	a.	because I am with you
		kai; oujdei;" ejpiqhvsetai soi  
	b.	and no one will attack you
		tou' kakw'sai se  
	c.	to hurt you
		diovti laov" ejstiv moi polu;" ejn th'/ povlei tauvth/  
	d.	because there is for Me many people in this city
		ejkavqisen de; ejniauto;n kai; mh'na" e}x  
18:11	a.	so he remained for one year and six months
		didavskwn ejn aujtoi'" to;n lovgon tou' qeou'  
	b.	teaching the message of God among them
		Gallivwno" de; ajnqupavtou o[nto" th'" !Acai?a"   
18:12	a.	now while Gallio was (the) proconsul of Achaia
		katepevsthsan oJmoqumado;n oiJ !Ioudai'oi tw'/ Pauvlw/  
	b.	the Jews attacked Paul with one mind
		kai; h[gagon aujto;n ejpi; to; bh'ma  
	c.	and they brought him to the judgment place
		levgonte" o{ti  
18:13	a.	saying that
		para; to;n novmon ajnapeivqei ou|to" tou;" ajnqrwvpou" sevbesqai to;n  qeovn 
	b.	this one persuades the people to worship God contrary to the Law
		mevllonto" de; tou' Pauvlou ajnoivgein to; stovma  
18:14	a.	but while Paul was about to start speaking
		ei\pen oJ Gallivwn pro;" tou;" !Ioudaivou"  
	b.	Gallio said to the Jews
		eij me;n h\n ajdivkhma ti h] rJa/diouvrghma ponhrovn  
	c.	if indeed it were some crime or wicked wrongdoing
		w\ !Ioudai'oi  
	d.	o Jews
		kata; lovgon a]n ajnescovmhn uJmw'n  
	e.	I would accepted a complaint from you
		eij de; zhthvmata ejstin  
18:15	a.	but if it is (a) dispute
		peri; lovgou kai; ojnomavtwn kai; novmou tou' kaq! uJma'"  
	b.	about (a) word and names and (the) law according to you
		o[yesqe aujtoiv  
	c.	you see to it yourselves
		krith;" ejgw; touvtwn ouj bouvlomai ei\nai  
	d.	I do not want to be (the) judge of these things
		kai; ajphvlasen aujtou;" ajpo; tou' bhvmato"  
18:16	a.	and then he drove them away from the judgment place
		ejpilabovmenoi de; pavnte" Swsqevnhn to;n ajrcisunavgwgon  
18:17	a.	so all having taken hold of Sosthenes the leader of the synagogue
		e[tupton e[mprosqen tou' bhvmato"  
	b.	they were beating (him) in front of the judgment seat
		kai; oujde;n touvtwn tw'/ Gallivwni e[melen  
	c.	in fact nothing of these things was a concern to Gallio
		oJ de; Pau'lo" e[ti prosmeivna" hJmevra" iJkana;"  
18:18	a.	then Paul still having stayed on for many days
		toi'" ajdelfoi'" ajpotaxavmeno"  
	b.	having said goodbye to the fellow believers
		ejxevplei eij" th;n Surivan  
	c.	he sailed away to Syria
		kai; su;n aujtw'/ Privskilla kai; !Akuvla"  
	d.	and with him Priscilla and Aquila
		keiravmeno" ejn Kegcreai'" th;n kefalhvn  
	e.	having shaved his head in Cenchreae
		ei\cen ga;r eujchvn  
	f.	because he made (a) vow
		kathvnthsan de; eij" %Efeson  
18:19	a.	they then arrived at Ephesus
		kakeivnou" katevlipen aujtou'  
	b.	and he left them there
		aujto;" de; eijselqw;n eij" th;n sunagwgh;n  
	c.	then himself having gone into the synagogue
		dielevxato toi'" !Ioudaivoi"  
	d.	he argued with the Jews
		ejrwtwvntwn de; aujtw'n  
18:20	a.	and they asking him
		ejpi; pleivona crovnon mei'nai  
	b.	to stay for (a) longer period of time
		oujk ejpevneusen  
	c.	he did not consent
		ajlla; ajpotaxavmeno"  
18:21	a.	but having said goodbye
		kai; eijpwvn  
	b.	and having said
		pavlin ajnakavmyw pro;" uJma'"  
	c.	I will return to you again
		tou' qeou' qevlonto"  
	d.	God being willing
		ajnhvcqh ajpo; th'" !Efevsou  
	e.	he set sail from Ephesus
		kai; katelqw;n eij" Kaisavreian  
18:22	a.	then having arrived at land at Caesarea
		ajnaba;"  
	b.	having gone up
		kai; ajspasavmeno" th;n ejkklhsivan  
	c.	and having greeted the church
		katevbh eij" !Antiovceian  
	d.	he went down to Antioch
		kai; poihvsa" crovnon tina;  
18:23	a.	and having spent some time
		ejxh'lqen  
	b.	he departed
		diercovmeno" kaqexh'" th;n Galatikh;n cwvran kai;  Frugivan 
	c.	going on from one place to another in the region of Galatia and Phrygia
		ejpisthrivzwn pavnta" tou;" maqhtav"  
	d.	stengthening all the disciples
		!Ioudai'o" dev ti" !Apollw'" ojnovmati !Alexandreu;"   
18:24	a.	then (a) certain Jew by name Apollos an Alexandrian
		tw'/ gevnei ajnh;r lovgio"  
	b.	by nature (an) eloquent man
		kathvnthsen eij" %Efeson  
	c.	he arrived in Ephesus
		dunato;" w]n ejn tai'" grafai'"  
	d.	being competent in the Scriptures
		ou|to" h\n kathchmevno" th;n oJdo;n tou' kurivou  
18:25	a.	this one was instructed in the Way of the Lord
		kai; zevwn tw'/ pneuvmati  
	b.	and showing enthusiasm
		ejlavlei  
	c.	he was speaking
		kai; ejdivdasken ajkribw'" ta; peri; tou' !Ihsou'  
	d.	and he was accurately teaching the things concerning Jesus
		ejpistavmeno" movnon to; bavptisma !Iwavnnou  
	e.	having known only the baptism of John
		ou|to" te h[rxato parrhsiavzesqai ejn th'/ sunagwgh'/  
18:26	a.	and this one began to speak boldly in the synagogue
		ajkouvsante" de; aujtou' Privskilla kai; !Akuvla"  
	b.	so Priscilla and Aquila having heard him
		proselavbonto aujto;n  
	c.	they led him aside
		kai; ajkribevsteron aujtw'/ ejxevqento th;n oJdo;n »tou' qeou'¼  
	d.	and they explained more accurately to him the Way [of God]
		boulomevnou de; aujtou' dielqei'n eij" th;n !Acai?an   
18:27	a.	and he intending to cross over to Achaia
		protreyavmenoi oiJ ajdelfoi;  
	b.	the fellow believers having urged
		e[grayan toi'" maqhtai'" ajpodevxasqai aujtovn  
	c.	they wrote to the disciples to receive him
		o}" paragenovmeno"  
	d.	he having arrived
		sunebavleto polu; toi'" pepisteukovsin dia; th'" cavrito"  
	e.	he much helped those having believed through the grace
		eujtovnw" ga;r toi'" !Ioudaivoi" diakathlevgceto dhmosiva/  
18:28	a.	because he was vigorously refuting the Jews publicly
		ejpideiknu;" dia; tw'n grafw'n ei\nai to;n Cristo;n !Ihsou'n   
	b.	proving by means of the Scriptures that Jesus is the Messiah
