		ijde ejgw; Pau'lo" levgw uJmi'n o{ti  
5:2	a.	look I Paul say to you that
		eja;n peritevmnhsqe 
	b.	if you are circumcised
		Cristo;" uJma'" oujde;n wjfelhvsei 
	c.	Christ will be of no help to you
		martuvromai de; pavlin panti; ajnqrwvpw/ peritemnomevnw/ o{ti  
5:3	a.	and I declare again to each person being circumcised that
		ojfeilevth" ejsti;n o{lon to;n novmon poih'sai     
	b.	he is obliged to keep the whole Law
		kathrghvqhte ajpo; Cristou' 
5:4	a.	you will be cut off from Christ
		oi{tine" ejn novmw/ dikaiou'sqe 
	b.	you who are justified by the Law
		th'" cavrito" ejxepevsate  
	c.	you no longer experienced grace
		hJmei'" ga;r pneuvmati ejk pivstew"   
5:5	a.	because we by faith through (the) Spirit
		ejlpivda dikaiosuvnh" ajpekdecovmeqa  
	b.	eagerly expect (the) hope of righteousness
		ejn ga;r Cristw'/ !Ihsou' 
5:6	a.	because in Christ Jesus
		ou[te peritomhv ti ijscuvei 
	b.	neither circumcision has any ability
		ou[te ajkrobustiva  
	c.	nor uncircumcision
		ajlla; pivsti" di! ajgavph" ejnergoumevnh 
	d.	but faith working through love
		ejtrevcete kalw'" 
5:7	a.	you were progressing well
		tiv" uJma'" ejnevkoyen »th'/¼ ajlhqeiva/ mh; peivqesqai_  
	b.	who prevented you (so as) not to obey [the] truth?
		hJ peismonh; oujk ejk tou' kalou'nto" uJma'"  
5:8	a.	that which persuaded (you was) not from the One calling you
		mikra; zuvmh o{lon to; fuvrama zumoi' 
5:9	a.	(a) little yeast adds yeast to the whole mixture
		ejgw; pevpoiqa eij" uJma'" ejn kurivw/ o{ti 
5:10	a.	I am convinced as to you in (the) Lord that
		oujde;n a[llo fronhvsete 
	b.	you will think nothing differently
		oJ de; taravsswn uJma'" 
	c.	but the one upsetting you
		bastavsei to; krivma 
	d.	will suffer condemnation
		o{sti" eja;n h\/  
	e.	who ever he may be
		ejgw; dev ajdelfoiv 
5:11	a.	but I fellow believers
		eij peritomh;n e[ti khruvssw 
	b.	if I still preach circumcision
		tiv e[ti diwvkomai_  
	c.	why am I still persecuted?
		a[ra kathvrghtai to; skavndalon tou' staurou'  
	d.	then the offence of the cross would have ceased
		o[felon kai; ajpokovyontai oiJ ajnastatou'nte" uJma'"   
5:12	a.	indeed I wish that those agitating you will cut themselves off
		uJmei'" ga;r ejp! ejleuqeriva/ ejklhvqhte ajdelfoiv 
5:13	a.	yes you were called to freedom fellow believers
		movnon mh; th;n ejleuqerivan eij" ajformh;n th'/ sarkiv 
	b.	only not the freedom to the point of (an) excuse for the human nature
		ajlla; dia; th'" ajgavph" douleuvete ajllhvloi" 
	c.	but through love serve one another
		oJ ga;r pa'" novmo" ejn eJni; lovgw/ peplhvrwtai 
5:14	a.	for the whole Law is proclaimed by one statement
		ejn tw'/ ajgaphvsei" to;n plhsivon sou wJ" seautovn      
	b.	by namely you shall love your neighbour as yourself
		eij de; ajllhvlou" davknete kai; katesqivete 
5:15	a.	but if you harm and utterly destroy one another
		blevpete mh; uJp! ajllhvlwn ajnalwqh'te  
	b.	beware (that) you are not destroyed by one another
		levgw dev  
5:16	a.	I now say
		pneuvmati peripatei'te 
	b.	live by (the) Spirit
		kai; ejpiqumivan sarko;" ouj mh; televshte  
	c.	and you will never accomplish (the) desire of (the) sinful nature
		hJ ga;r sa;rx ejpiqumei' kata; tou' pneuvmato"   
5:17	a.	because the sinful nature desires against the Spirit
		to; de; pneu'ma kata; th'" sarkov"  
	b.	and the Spirit against the sinful nature
		tau'ta ga;r ajllhvloi" ajntivkeitai  
	c.	because these are hostile toward one another
		i{na mh; a} eja;n qevlhte   
	d.	so that what ever you do not want (to do)
		tau'ta poih'te 
	e.	those things you do
		eij de; pneuvmati a[gesqe 
5:18	a.	but if you are led by (the) Spirit
		oujk ejste; uJpo; novmon  
	b.	you are not under the control of the Law
		fanera; dev ejstin ta; e[rga th'" sarkov"   
5:19	a.	now the works of the sinful nature are evident
		a{tina ejstin 
	b.	these are
		porneiva ajkaqarsiva ajsevlgeia   
	c.	fornication immorality licentiousness
		eijdwlolatriva farmakeiva e[cqrai   
5:20	a.	idolatry sorcery enmities
		e[ri" zh'lo" qumoiv   
	b.	discord jealousy furies
		ejriqei'ai dicostasivai aiJrevsei"  
	c.	hostility discord division
		fqovnoi mevqai kw'moi   
5:21	a.	envy drunkenness orgies
		kai; ta; o{moia touvtoi" 
	b.	and the things similar to these
		a} prolevgw uJmi'n 
	c.	as to which I warn you
		kaqw;" proei'pon o{ti  
	d.	just as I said before that
		oiJ ta; toiau'ta pravssonte"  
	e.	those doing such things
		basileivan qeou' ouj klhronomhvsousin  
	f.	will not receive (the) kingdom of God
		oJ de; karpo;" tou' pneuvmato" ejstin 
5:22	a.	but the outcome of the Spirit is
		ajgavph cara; eijrhvnh   
	b.	love joy peace
		makroqumiva crhstovth" ajgaqwsuvnh  
	c.	patience kindness goodness
		pivsti" prau?th" ejgkravteia  
5:23	a.	faithfulness gentleness self-control
		kata; tw'n toiouvtwn oujk e[stin novmo"  
	b.	against such things there is no law
		oiJ de; tou' Cristou' »!Ihsou'¼  
5:24	a.	but those (who are) of Christ [Jesus]
		th;n savrka ejstauvrwsan  
	b.	crucified the sinful nature
		su;n toi'" paqhvmasin kai; tai'" ejpiqumivai"  
	c.	with its passions and desires
		eij zw'men pneuvmati 
5:25	a.	if we live by (the) Spirit
		pneuvmati kai; stoicw'men 
	b.	by (the) Spirit also we will behave
		mh; ginwvmeqa kenovdoxoi 
5:26	a.	let us not be falsely proud
		ajllhvlou" prokalouvmenoi 
	b.	provoking one another
		ajllhvloi" fqonou'nte"  
	c.	being envious of one another
