		ajge nu'n oiJ plouvsioi  
5:1	a.	come now you rich
		klauvsate ojloluvzonte" ejpi; tai'" talaipwrivai" uJmw'n tai'"  
	b.	weep crying aloud because of your coming  
		ejpercomevnai" 
		miseries
		oJ plou'to" uJmw'n sevshpen 
5:2	a.	your riches have rotted away
		kai; ta; iJmavtia uJmw'n shtovbrwta gevgonen 
	b.	and your garments have become moth-eaten
		oJ cruso;" uJmw'n kai; oJ a[rguro" kativwtai     
5:3	a.	your gold and silver have become tarnished
		kai; oJ ijo;" aujtw'n eij" martuvrion uJmi'n e[stai 
	b.	and their tarnish will be as (a) witness against you
		kai; favgetai ta;" savrka" uJmw'n wJ" pu'r  
	c.	and will consume your flesh like fire
		ejqhsaurivsate ejn ejscavtai" hJmevrai" 
	d.	you treasured up for (the) last days
		ijdou; oJ misqo;" tw'n ejrgatw'n tw'n ajmhsavntwn ta;" cwvra" uJmw'n  
5:4	a.	indeed the pay of the workers that mowed your fields
		oJ ajpesterhmevno" ajf! uJmw'n 
	b.	the (pay) defrauded by you
		kravzei 
	c.	cries out
		kai; aiJ boai; tw'n qerisavntwn eij" ta; w\ta kurivou sabaw;q  
	d.	and the cries of the harvesters have entered into the ears of (the)  
		eijselhluvqasin 
		Lord Almighty
		ejtrufhvsate ejpi; th'" gh'" kai; ejspatalhvsate 
5:5	a.	you lived on the earth with intemperance and indulgence
		ejqrevyate ta;" kardiva" uJmw'n ejn hJmevra/ sfagh'" 
	b.	you fed your insides for (the) day of condemnation
		katedikavsate 
5:6	a.	you condemned (the righteous)
		ejfoneuvsate to;n divkaion 
	b.	you murdered the righteous
		oujk ajntitavssetai uJmi'n 
	c.	he shows you no hostility
		makroqumhvsate ou\n ajdelfoiv  
5:7	a.	be patient then fellow believers
		e{w" th'" parousiva" tou' kurivou 
	b.	until the coming of the Lord
		ijdou;  
	c.	pay attention
		oJ gewrgo;" ejkdevcetai to;n tivmion karpo;n th'" gh'"  
	d.	the farmer waits for the valuable harvest of the soil
		makroqumw'n ejp! aujtw'/ 
	e.	waiting patiently for it
		e{w" lavbh/ provi>mon kai; o[yimon 
	f.	until he received early rain and late rain
		makroqumhvsate kai; uJmei'"  
5:8	a.	you too must wait patiently
		sthrivxate ta;" kardiva" uJmw'n 
	b.	strengthen your inner selves
		o{ti hJ parousiva tou' kurivou h[ggiken 
	c.	because the coming of the Lord is near
		mh; stenavzete ajdelfoiv kat! ajllhvlwn  
5:9	a.	do not complain against one another fellow believers
		i{na mh; kriqh'te 
	b.	so that you may not be judged
		ijdou;  
	c.	pay attention
		oJ krith;" pro; tw'n qurw'n e{sthken 
	d.	the judge has taken stand before the doors
		uJpovdeigma lavbete ajdelfoiv  
5:10	a.	take (as) example fellow believers
		th'" kakopaqiva" kai; th'" makroqumiva" tou;" profhvta"  
	b.	of suffering distress and of patience the prophets
		oi} ejlavlhsan ejn tw'/ ojnovmati kurivou 
	c.	who spoke in the Name of (the) Lord
		ijdou;  
5:11	a.	pay attention
		makarivzomen tou;" uJpomeivnanta" 
	b.	we regard as happy those having endured
		th;n uJpomonh;n !Iw;b hjkouvsate 
	c.	you heard about the endurance of Job
		kai; to; tevlo" kurivou ei[dete 
	d.	and you noticed the purpose of (the) Lord
		o{ti poluvsplagcno" ejstin oJ kuvrio" kai; oijktivrmwn  
	e.	that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful
		pro; pavntwn dev ajdelfoiv mou  
5:12	a.	now above all my fellow believers
		mh; ojmnuvete 
	b.	do not swear
		mhvte to;n oujrano;n  
	c.	not by heaven
		mhvte th;n gh'n  
	d.	and not by the earth
		mhvte a[llon tina; o{rkon  
	e.	and not by any other oath
		h[tw de; uJmw'n to; nai; nai; 
	f.	but let your yes be yes
		kai; to; ou] ou[ 
	g.	and (your) no no
		i{na mh; uJpo; krivsin pevshte 
	h.	so that you may not be condemned
		kakopaqei' ti" ejn uJmi'n_    
5:13	a.	does anyone among you suffer distress?
		proseucevsqw 
	b.	let him pray
		eujqumei' ti"_     
	c.	is anyone encouraged?
		yallevtw 
	d.	let him sing praises
		ajsqenei' ti" ejn uJmi'n_    
5:14	a.	is anyone among you ill?
		proskalesavsqw tou;" presbutevrou" th'" ejkklhsiva" 
	b.	let him call to him the elders of the church
		kai; proseuxavsqwsan ejp! aujto;n 
	c.	and let them pray for him
		ajleivyante" »aujto;n¼ ejlaivw/ ejn tw'/ ojnovmati tou' kurivou 
	d.	having anointed [him] with oil in the Name of the Lord
		kai; hJ eujch; th'" pivstew" swvsei to;n kavmnonta 
5:15	a.	and the prayer of faith will heal the sick
		kai; ejgerei' aujto;n oJ kuvrio" 
	b.	yes the Lord will restore him to health
		ka]n aJmartiva" h\/ pepoihkwv"  
	c.	even if he be one having committed sins
		ajfeqhvsetai aujtw'/ 
	d.	it will be forgiven to him
		ejxomologei'sqe ou\n ajllhvloi" ta;" aJmartiva"  
5:16	a.	confess then to one another your sins
		kai; eu[cesqe uJpe;r ajllhvlwn 
	b.	indeed pray for one another
		o{pw" ijaqh'te 
	c.	so that you may be healed
		polu; ijscuvei devhsi" dikaivou ejnergoumevnh  
	d.	(the) prayer at work of (a) righteous person (has) great ability
		!Hliva" a[nqrwpo" h\n 
5:17	a.	Elijah was (a) human being
		oJmoiopaqh;" hJmi'n  
	b.	similar to us in feeling
		kai; proseuch'/ proshuvxato tou' mh; brevxai 
	c.	and by (a) prayer he prayed not to rain
		kai; oujk e[brexen ejpi; th'" gh'" ejniautou;" trei'" kai; mh'na" e{x  
	d.	and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months
		kai; pavlin proshuvxato 
5:18	a.	then again he prayed
		kai; oJ oujrano;" uJeto;n e[dwken  
	b.	and the sky produced rain
		kai; hJ gh' ejblavsthsen to;n karpo;n aujth'" 
	c.	and then the ground produced its fruit
		ajdelfoiv mou  
5:19	a.	my fellow believers
		ejavn ti" ejn uJmi'n planhqh'/ ajpo; th'" ajlhqeiva" 
	b.	if someone among you strayed from the truth
		kai; ejpistrevyh/ ti" aujtovn  
	c.	and someone made him change (his) beliefs
		ginwskevtw o{ti 
5:20	a.	let him know that
		oJ ejpistrevya" aJmartwlo;n  
	b.	the one making (a) sinner change (his) beliefs
		ejk plavnh" oJdou' aujtou'  
	c.	away from his deceitful way of life
		swvsei yuch;n aujtou' ejk qanavtou 
	d.	will save his inner being from death
		kai; kaluvyei plh'qo" aJmartiw'n  
	e.	and he will cover a multitude of sins
