		mh; polloi; didavskaloi givnesqe ajdelfoiv mou   
3:1	a.	do not become many teachers my fellow believers
		eijdovte" o{ti 
	b.	knowing that
		mei'zon krivma lhmyovmeqa 
	c.	we will receive greater condemnation
		polla; ga;r ptaivomen a{pante" 
3:2	a.	because we all sin much
		ei[ ti" ejn lovgw/ ouj ptaivei   
	b.	if someone does not sin in speaking
		ou|to" tevleio" ajnh;r 
	c.	this one (is a) perfect man
		dunato;" calinagwgh'sai kai; o{lon to; sw'ma   
	d.	able to control even his whole body
		eij de; tw'n i{ppwn tou;" calinou;" eij" ta; stovmata bavllomen 
3:3	a.	now if we put bridles in the mouths of horses
		eij" to; peivqesqai aujtou;" hJmi'n 
	b.	so that they obey us
		kai; o{lon to; sw'ma aujtw'n metavgomen 
	c.	and then we guide their whole body
		ijdou; kai; ta; ploi'a   
3:4	a.	indeed also the ships
		thlikau'ta o[nta 
	b.	being so large
		kai; uJpo; ajnevmwn sklhrw'n ejlaunovmena  
	c.	and being driven by powerful winds
		metavgetai uJpo; ejlacivstou phdalivou 
	d.	are guided by (a) very small rudder
		o{pou hJ oJrmh; tou' eujquvnonto" bouvletai  
	e.	wherever the will of the one piloting desires
		ou{tw" kai; hJ glw'ssa mikro;n mevlo" ejsti;n 
3:5	a.	so also the tongue is (a) small body part
		kai; megavla aujcei' 
	b.	yet it boasts great things
		ijdou; hJlivkon pu'r hJlivkhn u{lhn ajnavptei 
	c.	look how small (a) fire sets ablaze how big (a) forest
		kai; hJ glw'ssa pu'r 
3:6	a.	indeed the tongue (is a) fire
		oJ kovsmo" th'" ajdikiva"  
	b.	(a) world of wickedness
		hJ glw'ssa kaqivstatai ejn toi'" mevlesin hJmw'n   
	c.	the tongue is put in charge of our body parts
		hJ spilou'sa o{lon to; sw'ma  
	d.	(as) the one staining the whole body
		kai; flogivzousa to;n troco;n th'" genevsew"  
	e.	and setting ablaze the course of our existence
		kai; flogizomevnh uJpo; th'" geevnnh"  
	f.	and being set ablaze by the hell
		pa'sa ga;r fuvsi" qhrivwn te kai; peteinw'n eJrpetw'n te kai;   
3:7	a.	for every kind of both animals and birds both reptiles and sea   
		ejnalivwn  
		creatures
		damavzetai kai; dedavmastai th'/ fuvsei th'/ ajnqrwpivnh/  
	b.	is controlled and has been controlled by the human kind
		th;n de; glw'ssan oujdei;" damavsai duvnatai ajnqrwvpwn 
3:8	a.	but the tongue no one of humans can control
		ajkatavstaton kakovn 
	b.	(it is an) uncontrolled evil
		mesth; ijou' qanathfovrou  
	c.	full of deadly poison
		ejn aujth'/ eujlogou'men to;n kuvrion kai; patevra 
3:9	a.	with it we praise the Lord and Father
		kai; ejn aujth'/ katarwvmeqa tou;" ajnqrwvpou"  
	b.	and with it we curse (the) people
		tou;" kaq! oJmoivwsin qeou' gegonovta" 
	c.	those having been formed in (the) likeness of God
		ejk tou' aujtou' stovmato" ejxevrcetai eujlogiva kai; katavra 
3:10	a.	out of the same mouth come out praise and curse
		ouj crhv ajdelfoiv mou tau'ta ou{tw" givnesqai 
	b.	this my fellow believers should not be so
		mhvti hJ phgh; ejk th'" aujth'" ojph'" bruvei to; gluku; kai; to;    
3:11	a.	surely (a) spring does not pour out of the same opening sweet and    
		pikrovn_   
		bitter? (water)
		mh; duvnatai ajdelfoiv mou sukh' ejlaiva" poih'sai  
3:12	a.	(a) fig tree my fellow believers can surely not produce olives
		h] a[mpelo" su'ka_  
	b.	or (a) vine figs?
		ou[te aJluko;n gluku; poih'sai u{dwr  
	c.	and (a) salty (spring) does not produce sweet water
		tiv" sofo;" kai; ejpisthvmwn ejn uJmi'n_  
3:13	a.	who (is) wise and clever among you?
		deixavtw ejk th'" kalh'" ajnastrofh'" ta; e[rga aujtou' ejn prau?thti   
	b.	let him show from his good behaviour his deeds in gentleness of   
		sofiva"  
		wisdom
		eij de; zh'lon pikro;n e[cete kai; ejriqeivan ejn th'/ kardiva/ uJmw'n   
3:14	a.	but if you have resentful jealousy and hostility in your inner selves
		mh; katakauca'sqe kai; yeuvdesqe kata; th'" ajlhqeiva"  
	b.	do not boast and lie against the truth
		oujk e[stin au{th hJ sofiva a[nwqen katercomevnh 
3:15	a.	this wisdom is not coming down from above
		ajlla; ejpivgeio" yucikhv daimoniwvdh" 
	b.	but (is) of people worldly demonic
		o{pou ga;r zh'lo" kai; ejriqeiva 
3:16	a.	for where (is) jealousy and selfish ambition
		ejkei' ajkatastasiva kai; pa'n fau'lon pra'gma   
	b.	there (is) rebellion and every kind of evil happening
		hJ de; a[nwqen sofiva 
3:17	a.	but the wisdom from above
		prw'ton me;n aJgnhv ejstin  
	b.	first indeed is pure
		e[peita eijrhnikhv ejpieikhv" eujpeiqhv"  
	c.	then peaceful gentle open to reason
		mesth; ejlevou" kai; karpw'n ajgaqw'n 
	d.	full of mercy and of good deeds
		ajdiavkrito" ajnupovkrito" 
	e.	impartial genuine
		karpo;" de; dikaiosuvnh" ejn eijrhvnh/ speivretai 
3:18	a.	and (the) deed of righteousness is sown in peace
		toi'" poiou'sin eijrhvnhn  
	b.	by those making peace
