		!Iouvda" 
1	a.	Jude
		!Ihsou' Cristou' dou'lo"  
	b.	(a) slave of Jesus Christ
		ajdelfo;" de; !Iakwvbou 
	c.	and brother of James
		toi'" ejn qew'/ patri; hjgaphmevnoi" 
	d.	to those loved by God (the) Father
		kai; !Ihsou' Cristw'/ tethrhmevnoi" 
	e.	and to those kept by Jesus Christ
		klhtoi'"  
	f.	to (those) called
		e[leo" uJmi'n kai; eijrhvnh kai; ajgavph plhqunqeivh 
2	a.	may mercy to you and peace and love be increased
		ajgaphtoiv  
3	a.	beloved
		pa'san spoudh;n poiouvmeno" gravfein uJmi'n 
	b.	doing all eagerness to write to you
		peri; th'" koinh'" hJmw'vvvvvn swthriva"  
	c.	because of our mutual salvation
		ajnavgkhn e[scon gravyai uJmi'n  
	d.	I had (an) obligation to write to you
		parakalw'n ejpagwnivzesqai 
	e.	urging (you) to struggle
		th'/ a{pax paradoqeivsh/ toi'" aJgivoi" pivstei 
	f.	for the faith once for all entrusted to God's people
		pareisevdusan gavr tine" a[nqrwpoi  
4	a.	because some people sneaked in
		oiJ pavlai progegrammevnoi eij" tou'to to; krivma   
	b.	those written about long ago concerning this condemnation
		ajsebei'"   
	c.	ungodly people
		th;n tou' qeou' hJmw'n cavrita metatiqevnte" eij" ajsevlgeian 
	d.	turning the kindness of our God into extreme immorality
		kai; to;n movnon despovthn kai; kuvrion hJmw'n !Ihsou'n Cristo;n   
	e.	and refusing to obey our only Master and Lord Jesus   
		ajrnouvmenoi  
		Christ
		uJpomnh'sai de; uJma'" bouvlomai 
5	a.	I further want to remind you
		eijdovta" uJma'" pavnta o{ti 
	b.	though you know (it) all that
		oJ kuvrio" a{pax lao;n ejk th'" Aijguvptou swvsa" 
	c.	the Lord once having delivered His people from Egypt
		deuvteron tou;" mh; pisteuvsanta" ajpwvlese 
	d.	afterwards destroyed those not having believed
		ajggevlou" te tou;" mh; thrhvsanta" th;n eJautw'n ajrch;n 
6	a.	and angels not having retained their own sphere of rule
		ajlla; ajpolipovnta" to; i[dion oijkthvrion   
	b.	but deserted their own dwelling place
		eij" krivsin megavlh" hJmevra" desmoi'" aji>divoi" uJpo; zovfon  
	c.	He has kept for judgment of (the) great day with everlasting chains  
		tethvrhken 
		under darkness
		wJ" Sovdoma kai; Govmorra kai; aiJ peri; aujta;" povlei"  
7	a.	just like Sodom and Gomorrah and the towns around them
		to;n o{moion trovpon touvtoi" ejkporneuvsasai    
	b.	in the same way as those engaged in sexual immorality
		kai; ajpelqou'sai ojpivsw sarko;" eJtevra" 
	c.	indeed having homosexual intercourse
		provkeintai dei'gma puro;" aijwnivou divkhn uJpevcousai  
	d.	they are clearly (an) example of suffering punishment of eternal fire
		oJmoivw" mevntoi kai; ou{toi 
8	a.	in the same way then also these people
		ejnupniazovmenoi savrka me;n miaivnousin 
	b.	dreaming they indeed defile (their) bodies
		kuriovthta de; ajqetouvsin    
	c.	and they regard as invalid supernatural authority
		dovxa" de; blasfhmou'sin 
	d.	and slander glorious beings
		oJ de; Micah;l oJ ajrcavggelo" o{te tw'/ diabovlw/ diakrinovmeno"  
9	a.	now when Michael the archangel was debating with the devil
		dielevgeto peri; tou' Mwu>sevw" swvmato" 
	b.	he argued about the body of Moses
		oujk ejtovlmhsen krivsin ejpenegkei'n blasfhmiva"  
	c.	he did not dare to bring (a) judgment of slander
		ajlla; ei\pen ejpitimhvsai soi kuvrio"  
	d.	but he said may (the) Lord rebuke you
		ou|toi de; o{sa me;n oujk oi[dasin   
10	a.	but these people whatever then they do not understand
		blasfhmou'sin 
	b.	they slander
		o{sa de; fusikw'" wJ" ta; a[loga zw'/a ejpivstantai 
	c.	and whatever they understand naturally like senseless animals
		ejn touvtoi" fqeivrontai  
	d.	by these things they are destroyed
		oujai; aujtoi'" o{ti th'/ oJdw'/ tou' Kavi>n ejporeuvqhsan    
11	a.	horror to them because they have behaved the way of Cain
		kai; th'/ plavnh/ tou' Balaa;m misqou' ejxecuvqhsan    
	b.	and they devoted themselves to the deception for reward of Balaam
		kai; th/' ajntilogiva/ tou' Kovre ajpwvlonto 
	c.	and by rebellion like Korah they perished
		ou|toi eijsin ejn tai'" ajgavpai" uJmw'n spilavde"    
12	a.	these people are hidden dangers in your fellowship meals
		suneuwcouvmenoi ajfovbw"  
	b.	feasting together without reverence for God
		eJautou;" poimaivnonte" 
	c.	being their own rule
		nefevlai a[nudroi uJpo; ajnevmwn paraferovmenai   
	d.	waterless clouds driven along by winds
		devndra fqinopwrina; a[karpa di;" ajpoqanovnta ejkrizwqevnta  
	e.	trees in late autumn without fruit completely dead uprooted
		kuvmata a[gria qalavssh" ejpafrivzonta ta;" eJautw'n aijscuvna"  
13	a.	stormy waves of (the) sea causing their shameful deeds to foam up
		ajstevre" planh'tai oi|" oJ zovfo" tou' skovtou" eij" aijw'na tethvrhtai  
	b.	wandering stars for whom the darkness of hell has been kept forever
		proefhvteusen de; kai; touvtoi" e{bdomo" ajpo; !Ada;m @Enw;c  
14	a.	and also against them prophesied Enoch (the) seventh after Adam  
		levgwn 
		saying
		ijdou; h\lqen kuvrio" ejn aJgivai" muriavsin aujtou' poih'sai krivsin kata;     
	b.	look (the) Lord came with His ten thousands (of) holy beings to bring     
		pavntwn    
		judgment against all
		kai; ejlevgxai pa'san yuch;n peri; pavntwn tw'n e[rgwn ajsebeiva"   
15	a.	and to rebuke all people for all their godless deeds that they did     
		aujtw'n w}n hjsevbhsan  
		in a godless manner
		kai; peri; pavntwn tw'n sklhrw'n w|n ejlavlhsan kat! aujtou'   
	b.	and for all the harsh things that they spoke against Him (as) ungodly   
		aJmartwloi; ajsebei'"  
		sinners
		ou|toiv eijsin goggustaiv  
16	a.	these people are grumblers
		memyivmoiroi 
	b.	fault finders
		kata; ta;" ejpiqumiva" eJautw'n poreuovmenoi 
	c.	living according to their own lusts
		kai; to; stovma aujtw'n lalei' uJpevrogka 
	d.	and their mouth speaks boastful things
		qaumavzonte" provswpa wjfeleiva" cavrin 
	e.	flattering for gain
		uJmei'" dev ajgaphtoiv   
17	a.	but you beloved
		mnhvsqhte tw'n rJhmavtwn tw'n proeirhmevnwn 
	b.	remember the words spoken long ago
		uJpo; tw'n ajpostovlwn tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou 
	c.	by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ
		o{ti e[legon uJmi'n   
18	a.	that they said to you
		o{ti ejp! ejscavtou tou' crovnou e[sontai ejmpai'ktai  
	b.	that at (the) end of time there will be mockers
		kata; ta;" eJautw'n ejpiqumiva" poreuovmenoi tw'n ajsebeiw'n 
	c.	living according to the own lusts of the ungodly
		ou|toiv eijsin oiJ ajpodiorivzonte" 
19	a.	they are those causing divisions
		yucikoiv pneu'ma mh; e[conte" 
	b.	wordly people not having (the) Spirit
		hJmei'" de; ajgaphtoiv  
20	a.	but you beloved
		ejpoikodomou'nte" eJautou;" th/' aJgiwtavth/ uJmw'n pvistei  
	b.	building yourselves up in your most holy faith
		ejn pneuvmati aJgivw/ proseucovmenoi 
	c.	praying in (the) Holy Spirit
		eJautou;" ejn ajgavph/ qeou' thrhvsate 
21	a.	keep yourselves in (the) love of God
		prosdecovmenoi to; e[leo" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	b.	waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ
		eij" zwh;n aijwvnion  
	c.	leading to eternal life
		kai; ou me;n ejlea'te diakrinomevnou"  
22	a.	and indeed show mercy to those who doubt
		ou}" de; swv/zete ejk puro;" aJrpavzonte" 
23	a.	and save others snatching (them) from fire
		ou}" de; ejlea'te ejn fovbw/ 
	b.	and show others mercy with fear
		misou'nte" kai; to;n ajpo; th'" sarko;" ejspilwmevnon citw'na  
	c.	hating even their clothing stained by their sinful nature
		tw'/ de; dunamevnw/ fulavxai uJma" ajptaivstou"    
24	a.	now to Him being able to keep you free from sinning
		kai; sth'sai katenwvpion th'" dovxh" aujtou' ajmwvmou" ejn ajgalliavsei 
	b.	and to let (you) stand before His glory without blame in great joy
		movnw/ qew'/ swth'ri hJmw'n dia; !Ihsou' Cristou' tou' kurivou hJmw'n  
25	a.	to (the) only God our Saviour because of Jesus Christ our Lord
		dovxa megalwsuvnh kravto" kai; ejxousiva    
	b.	glory prominence power and authority
		pro; panto;" tou' aijw'no"  
	c.	before all time
		kai; nu'n 
	d.	and now
		kai; eij" pavnta" tou;" aijw'na"     
	e.	and forever
		ajmhvn 
	f.	amen
