		ejn e[tei de; pentekaidekavtw/ th'" hJgemoniva" Tiberivou Kaivsaro" 
3:1	a.	now in (the) fifteenth year of the rule of Tiberius Caesar
		hJgemoneuvonto" Pontivou Pilavtou th'" !Ioudaiva"  
	b.	Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea
		kai; tetraarcou'nto" th'" Galilaiva" @Hrwv/dou  
	c.	and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee
		Filivppou de; tou' ajdelfou' aujtou' tetraarcou'nto" th'" !Itouraiva"  
	d.	and Philip his brother being tetrarch of Iturea and (the) region of Trachonitis
		kai; Lusanivou th'" !Abilhnh'" tetraarcou'nto"  
	e.	and Lysanias being tetrarch of Abilene
		ejpi; ajrcierevw" $Anna kai; Kai>avfa  
3:2	a.	when Annas and Caiaphas (were) high priest
		ejgevneto rJh'ma qeou' ejpi; !Iwavnnhn to;n Zacarivou uiJo;n ejn th'/ ejrhvmw/   
	b.	(a) word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness
		kai; h\lqen eij" pa'san »th;n¼ perivcwron tou' !Iordavnou  
3:3	a.	and so he went into [the] whole region of the Jordan
		khruvsswn bavptisma metanoiva" eij" a[fesin aJmartiw'n  
	b.	preaching (a) baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins
		wJ" gevgraptai ejn bivblw/ lovgwn !Hsai?ou tou' profhvtou   
3:4	a.	as written in (the) book of (the) words of Isaiah the prophet
		fwnh; bow'nto" ejn th'/ ejrhvmw/  
	b.	(a) voice of one shouting in the wilderness
		eJtoimavsate th;n oJdo;n kurivou  
	c.	make ready the way of (the) Lord
		eujqeiva" poiei'te ta;" trivbou" aujtou'  
	d.	make His paths straight
		pa'sa favragx plhrwqhvsetai  
3:5	a.	every valley shall be filled
		kai; pa'n o[ro" kai; bouno;" tapeinwqhvsetai  
	b.	and every mountain and hill shall be made low
		kai; e[stai ta; skolia; eij" eujqeivan    
	c.	and the crooked (roads) will become to be straight
		kai; aiJ tracei'ai eij" oJdou;" leiva"    
	d.	and the rough (places) become to (be) smooth roads
		kai; o[yetai pa'sa sa;rx to; swthvrion tou' qeou'  
3:6	a.	and all people shall see the salvation of God
		e[legen ou\n toi'" ejkporeuomevnoi" o[cloi"  
3:7	a.	therefore he was saying to the multitudes coming out
		baptisqh'nai uJp! aujtou'  
	b.	to be baptised by him
		gennhvmata ejcidnw'n tiv" uJpevdeixen uJmi'n  
	c.	brood of vipers who made known to you
		fugei'n ajpo; th'" mellouvsh" ojrgh'"_  
	d.	to flee from the coming wrath?
		poihvsate ou\n karpou;" ajxivou" th'" metanoiva"  
3:8	a.	so then produce results worthy of repentance
		kai; mh; a[rxhsqe levgein ejn eJautoi'"  
	b.	and do not begin to say in yourselves
		patevra e[comen to;n !Abraavm  
	c.	we have (a) father namely Abraham
		levgw ga;r uJmi'n o{ti  
	d.	indeed I say to you that
		duvnatai oJ qeo;"  
	e.	God is able
		ejk tw'n livqwn touvtwn ejgei'rai tevkna tw'/ !Abraavm  
	f.	to raise from these stones children for Abraham
		h[dh de; kai; hJ ajxivnh pro;" th;n rJivzan tw'n devndrwn kei'tai  
3:9	a.	further already also the axe lies at the root of the trees
		pa'n ou\n devndron mh; poiou'n karpo;n kalo;n  
	b.	every tree then not producing good fruit
		ejkkovptetai kai; eij" pu'r bavlletai  
	c.	is cut down and thrown into fire
		kai; ejphrwvtwn aujto;n oiJ o[cloi levgonte"  
3:10	a.	then the crowds asked him saying
		tiv ou\n poihvswmen_  
	b.	what then shall we do?
		ajpokriqei;" de; e[legen aujtoi'"  
3:11	a.	then having replied he said to them
		oJ e[cwn duvo citw'na"  
	b.	the one having two coats
		metadovtw tw'/ mh; e[conti  
	c.	let him give to the one not having
		kai; oJ e[cwn brwvmata  
	d.	also the one having food
		oJmoivw" poieivtw  
	e.	let him do likewise
		h\lqon de; kai; telw'nai baptisqh'nai  
3:12	a.	now also tax collectors came to be baptised
		kai; ei\pan pro;" aujtovn  
	b.	and they said to him
		didavskale tiv poihvswmen_  
	c.	teacher what shall we do?
		oJ de; ei\pen pro;" aujtouv"  
3:13	a.	then he said to them
		mhde;n plevon para; to; diatetagmevnon uJmi'n pravssete  
	b.	collect nothing more beyond what has been commanded to you
		ejphrwvtwn de; aujto;n kai; strateuovmenoi levgonte"  
3:14	a.	then also soldiers asked him saying
		tiv poihvswmen kai; hJmei'"_  
	b.	what shall also we do?
		kai; ei\pen aujtoi'"  
	c.	then he said to them
		mhdevna diaseivshte  
	d.	you should extort nobody
		mhde; sukofanthvshte  
	e.	and you should not make false charges
		kai; ajrkei'sqe toi'" ojywnivoi" uJmw'n  
	f.	and be satisfied with your wages
		prosdokw'nto" de; tou' laou'  
3:15	a.	now the people being in expectation
		kai; dialogizomevnwn pavntwn ejn tai'" kardivai" aujtw'n peri; tou'  
	b.	and all were thinking carefully in their inner selves about John
		mhvpote aujto;" ei[h oJ cristov"  
	c.	whether he himself could be the Messiah
		ajpekrivnato levgwn pa'sin oJ !Iwavnnh"  
3:16	a.	John replied saying to all
		ejgw; me;n u{dati baptivzw uJma'"  
	b.	I indeed baptise you with water
		e[rcetai de; oJ ijscurovterov" mou  
	c.	but the One greater than I is coming
		ou| oujk eijmi; iJkano;" lu'sai to;n iJmavnta tw'n uJpodhmavtwn aujtou'  
	d.	of Whom I am not worthy to loosen the strap of His sandals
		aujto;" uJma'" baptivsei ejn pneuvmati aJgivw/ kai; puriv   
	e.	He will baptise you with (the) Holy Spirit and fire
		ou| to; ptuvon ejn th'/ ceiri; aujtou'  
3:17	a.	whose winnowing shovel (is) in His hand
		diakaqa'rai th;n a{lwna aujtou'  
	b.	to clean out His threshing floor
		kai; sunagagei'n to;n si'ton eij" th;n ajpoqhvkhn aujtou'  
	c.	and to gather together the wheat into His barn
		to; de; a[curon katakauvsei puri; ajsbevstw/  
	d.	but the chaff He will burn with unquenchable fire
		polla; me;n ou\n kai; e{tera parakalw'n  
3:18	a.	so then also urging many other things
		eujhggelivzeto to;n laovn  
	b.	he told the people the good news
		oJ de; @Hrwv/dh" oJ tetraavrch" ejlegcovmeno" uJp! aujtou'  
3:19	a.	but Herod the tetrarch being rebuked by him
		peri; @Hrw/diavdo" th'" gunaiko;" tou' ajdelfou' aujtou'  
	b.	because of Herodias the wife of his brother
		kai; peri; pavntwn w|n ejpoivhsen ponhrw'n oJ @Hrwv/dh"  
	c.	and because of all (the) evil things that Herod did
		prosevqhken kai; tou'to ejpi; pa'sin  
3:20	a.	he added also this in addition to all
		»kai;¼ katevkleisen to;n !Iwavnnhn ejn fulakh'/  
	b.	[indeed] he shut up John in prison
		ejgevneto de; ejn tw'/ baptisqh'nai a{panta to;n lao;n  
3:21	a.	now it happened when all the people were baptised
		kai; !Ihsou' baptisqevnto"  
	b.	also Jesus having been baptised
		kai; proseucomevnou  
	c.	and was praying
		ajnew/cqh'nai to;n oujrano;n  
	d.	that the heaven was opened
		kai; katabh'nai to; pneu'ma to; a{gion swmatikw'/ ei[dei wJ"  
3:22	a.	and the Holy Spirit descended on Him in (a) bodily form like (a) dove
		kai; fwnh;n ejx oujranou' genevsqai  
	b.	and (a) voice from heaven came
		su; ei\ oJ uiJov" mou oJ ajgaphtov"  
	c.	You are My beloved Son
		ejn soi; eujdovkhsa  
	d.	in You I took pleasure
		kai; aujto;" h\n !Ihsou'" ajrcovmeno" wJsei; ejtw'n triavkonta  
3:23	a.	now Jesus was beginning when He was about thirty years (old)
		w]n uiJov" wJ" ejnomivzeto  
	b.	being (the) son as was supposed
		!Iwsh;f tou' !Hli;  
	c.	of Joseph the son of Eli
		tou' Maqqa;t tou' Leui; tou' Melci; tou' !Iannai; tou'  
3:24	a.	the son of Matthat the son of Levi the son of Melchi the son of Jannai the son of Joseph
		tou' Mattaqivou tou' !Amw;" tou' Naou;m tou' @Esli; tou'  
3:25	a.	the son of Mattathias the son of Amos the son of Nahum the son of Hesli the son of Naggai
		tou' Mavaq tou' Mattaqivou tou' Semei; tou' !Iwsh;c tou'  
3:26	a.	the son of Maath the son of Mattathias the son of Semein the son of Josech the son of Joda
		tou' !Iwana;n tou' @Rhsa; tou' Zorobabe;l tou' Salaqih;l tou'    
3:27	a.	the son of Joanan the son of Rhesa the son of Zerubbabel the son of Salathiel the son of Neri
		tou' Melci; tou' !Addi; tou' Kwsa;m tou' !Elmada;m tou'  
3:28	a.	the son of Melchi the son of Addi the son of Cosam the son of Elmadam the son of Er
		tou' !Ihsou' tou' !Elievzer tou' !Iwri;m tou' Maqqa;t tou'  
3:29	a.	the son of Joshua the son of Eliezer the son of Jorim the son of Matthat the son of Levi
		tou' Sumew;n tou' !Iouvda tou' !Iwsh;f tou' !Iwna;m tou'  
3:30	a.	the son of Simeon the son of Judah the son of Joseph the son of Jonam the son of Eliakim
		tou' Melea; tou' Menna; tou' Mattaqa; tou' Naqa;m tou'  
3:31	a.	the son of Melea the son of Menna the son of Mattatha the son of Nathan the son of David
		tou' !Iessai; tou' !Iwbh;d tou' Bovo" tou' Sala; tou'  
3:32	a.	the son of Jesse the son of Obed the son of Boaz the son of Shelah the son of Nahshon
		tou' !Aminada;b tou' !Admi;n tou' !Arni; tou' !Esrw;m tou' Favre" tou'  
3:33	a.	the son of Aminadab the son of Admin the son of Arni the son of Hezron the son of Perez the son of Judah
		tou' !Iakw;b tou' !Isaa;k tou' !Abraa;m tou' Qavra tou'  
3:34	a.	the son of Jacob the son of Isaac the son of Abraham the son of Terah the son of Nahor
		tou' Serou;c tou' @Ragau; tou' Favlek tou' #Eber tou'  
3:35	a.	the son of Serug the son of Reu the son of Peleg the son of Eber the son of Shelah
		tou' Kai>na;m tou' !Arfaxa;d tou' Sh;m tou' Nw'e tou'  	Lavmec 
3:36	a.	the son of Cainan the son of Arphaxad the son of Shem the son of Noah the son of Lamech
		tou' Maqousala; tou' !Enw;c tou' !Iavret tou' Maleleh;l tou'  Kai>na;m 
3:37	a.	the son of Methuselah the son of Enoch the son of Jared the son of Maleleel the son of Cainan
		tou' !Enw;" tou' Sh;q tou' !Ada;m tou' qeou' 
3:38	a.	the son of Enos the son of Seth the son of Adam the son of God
