		kai; diagenomevnou tou' sabbavtou  
16:1	a.	when the Sabbath passed
		Mariva hJ Magdalhnh; kai; Mariva hJ »tou'¼ !Iakwvbou kai; Salwvmh   
	b.	Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salmone bought 
		hjgovrasan ajrwvmata  
		aromatic salves
		i{na ejlqou'sai ajleivywsin aujtovn  
	c.	so that having gone they could anoint Him
		kai; livan prwi` th'/ mia'/ tw'n sabbavtwn e[rcontai ejpi; to;   mnhmei'on  
16:2	a.	then very early morning on the first (day) of the week they come to  the tomb
		ajnateivlanto" tou' hJlivou  
	b.	the sun having risen
		kai; e[legon pro;" eJautav"  
16:3	a.	then they said to themselves
		tiv" ajpokulivsei hJmi'n to;n livqon ejk th'" quvra" tou' mnhmeivou_  
	b.	who will roll away for us the stone from the entrance of the tomb?
		kai; ajnablevyasai qewrou'sin o{ti  
16:4	a.	then having looked up they see that
		ajpokekuvlistai oJ livqo"  
	b.	the stone has been rolled away
		h\n ga;r mevga" sfovdra  
	c.	it was indeed very large
		kai; eijselqou'sai eij" to; mnhmei'on  
16:5	a.	then having gone into the tomb
		ei\don neanivskon kaqhvmenon ejn toi'" dexioi'"  
	b.	they saw (a) young man sitting on the right side
		peribeblhmevnon stolh;n leukhvn  
	c.	he was clothed in (a) long shining robe
		kai; ejxeqambhvqhsan  
	d.	and they were alarmed
		oJ de; levgei aujtai'"  
16:6	a.	but he says to them
		mh; ejkqambei'sqe  
	b.	do not be alarmed
		!Ihsou'n zhtei'te to;n Nazarhno;n to;n ejstaurwmevnon  
	c.	you are looking for Jesus the Nazarene the One crucified
		hjgevrqh  
	d.	He has been raised to life
		oujk e[stin w|de  
	e.	He is not here
		i[de oJ tovpo" o{pou e[qhkan aujtovn  
	f.	see the place where they laid Him
		ajlla; uJpavgete ei[pate toi'" maqhtai'" aujtou' kai; tw'/ Pevtrw/ o{ti  
16:7	a.	certainly go tell His disciples and Peter that
		proavgei uJma'" eij" th;n Galilaivan  
	b.	He goes ahead of you to Galilee
		ejkei' aujto;n o[yesqe  
	c.	there you will see Him
		kaqw;" ei\pen uJmi'n  
	d.	just as He told you
		kai; ejxelqou'sai  
16:8	a.	then having gone out
		e[fugon ajpo; tou' mnhmeivou  
	b.	they ran away from the tomb
		ei\cen ga;r aujta;" trovmo" kai; e[kstasi"  
	c.	for trembling and amazement took possession of them
		kai; oujdeni; oujde;n ei\pan  
	d.	and they said nothing to no one
		ejfobou'nto gavr  
	e.	because they were afraid
		ajnasta;" de; prwi? prwvth/ sabbavtou   
16:9	a.	then having risen early morning on (the) first (day) of (the) week
		ejfavnh prw'ton Mariva/ th'/ Magdalhnh'/ par! h|" ejkbeblhvkei eJpta;  	daimovnia   
	b.	He appeared first to Mary Magdalene from whom He drove out seven demons
		ejkeivnh poreuqei'sa  
16:10	a.	she having gone
		ajphvggeilen toi'" met! aujtou' genomevnoi" penqou'si kai; klaivousin 
	b.	told those having been with Him who were mourning and weeping
		kakei'noi ajkouvsante" o{ti  
16:11	a.	now they having heard that
		zh'/ kai; ejqeavqh uJp! aujth'"  
	b.	He lives and was seen by her
		hjpivsthsan  
	c.	they did not believe
		meta; de; tau'ta dusi;n ejx aujtw'n peripatou'sin ejfanerwvqh ejn eJtevra/  morfh'/ 
16:12	a.	then after these things He appeared in (a) diffent visual form to two of them walking
		poreuomevnoi" eij" ajgrovn  
	b.	while they were travelling to (the) countryside
		kakei'noi ajpelqovnte" ajphvggeilan toi'" loipoi'"  
16:13	a.	then they having gone away reported to the others
		oujde; ejkeivnoi" ejpivsteusan  
	b.	but they did not believe them
		u{steron »de;¼ ajnakeimevnoi" aujtoi'"  
16:14	a.	[but] later while they were eating a meal
		toi'" e{ndeka ejfanerwvqh  
	b.	He appeared to the eleven
		kai; wjneivdisen th;n ajpistivan aujtw'n kai; sklhrokardivan  
	c.	and reprimanded their unbelief and stubbornness
		o{ti toi'" qeasamevnoi" aujto;n ejghgermevnon oujk ejpivsteusan  
	d.	because they did not believe those having seen Him raised to life
		kai; ei\pen aujtoi'"  
16:15	a.	also He said to them
		poreuqevnte" eij" to;n kovsmon  
	b.	go to the world
		a{panta khruvxate to; eujaggevlion pavsh/ th'/ ktivsei  
	c.	preach the whole gospel to the entire creation
		oJ pisteuvsa" kai; baptisqei;"  
16:16	a.	the one having believed and having been baptised
		swqhvsetai  
	b.	will be saved
		oJ de; ajpisthvsa"  
	c.	but the one having not believed
		katakriqhvsetai  
	d.	will be condemned
		shmei'a de; toi'" pisteuvsasin tau'ta parakolouqhvsei  
16:17	a.	and these signs will accompany for those having believed
		ejn tw'/ ojnovmati mou daimovnia ejkbalou'sin  
	b.	in My name they will drive out demons
		glwvssai" lalhvsousin kainai'"  
	c.	they will speak new languages
		»kai; ejn tai'" cersi;n¼ o[fei" ajrou'sin  
16:18	a.	[and with their hands] they will pick up snakes
		ka;n qanavsimon ti pivwsin  
	b.	even if they drink something deadly
		ouj mh; aujtou;" blavyh/  
	c.	it will not at all harm them
		ejpi; ajrrwvstou" cei'ra" ejpiqhvsousin  
	d.	on sick people they will lay hands
		kai; kalw'" e{xousin  
	e.	and they will be healthy
		oJ me;n ou\n kuvrio" !Ihsou'" meta; to; lalh'sai aujtoi'"  
16:19	a.	now then the Lord Jesus after speaking to them
		ajnelhvmfqh eij" to;n oujrano;n  
	b.	He was taken up into heaven
		kai; ejkavqisen ejk dexiw'n tou' qeou'  
	c.	and then He sat down at the right side of God
		ejkei'noi de; ejxelqovnte"  
16:20	a.	then they having gone out
		ejkhvruxan pantacou'  
	b.	they preached everywhere
		tou' kurivou sunergou'nto"  
	c.	while the Lord worked together with (them)
		kai; to;n lovgon bebaiou'nto"  
	d.	and caused (people) to believe the message
		dia; tw'n ejpakolouqouvntwn shmeivwn  
	e.	through the accompanying signs
