		kai; proskalesavmeno" tou;" dwvdeka maqhta;" aujtou'  
10:1	a.	now having called to Him His twelve disciples
		e[dwken aujtoi'" ejxousivan pneumavtwn ajkaqavrtwn 
	b.	He gave to them authority over unclean spirits
		w{ste ejkbavllein aujta;  
	c.	in order to drive them out
		kai; qerapeuvein pa'san novson kai; pa'san malakivan 
	d.	and to heal every sickness and every disease
		tw'n de; dwvdeka ajpostovlwn ta; ojnovmata ejstin tau'ta  
10:2	a.	now the names of the twelve apostles are these
		prw'to" Sivmwn oJ legovmeno" Pevtro"  
	b.	first Simon the one called Peter
		kai; !Andreva" oJ ajdelfo;" aujtou'  
	c.	and Andrew his brother
		kai; !Iavkwbo" oJ tou' Zebedaivou  
	d.	and James the son of Zebedee
		kai; !Iwavnnh" oJ ajdelfo;" aujtou' 
	e.	and John his brother
		Fivlippo" 
10:3	a.	Philip
		kai; Barqolomai'o" 
	b.	and Bartholomew
		Qwma'" 
	c.	Thomas
		kai; Maqqai'o" oJ telwvnh" 
	d.	and Matthew the tax collector
		!Iavkwbo" oJ tou' !Alfaivou  
	e.	James the son of Alphaeus
		kai; Qaddai'o"  
	f.	and Thaddaeus
		Sivmwn oJ Kananai'o" 
10:4	a.	Simon the Zealot
		kai; !Iouvda" oJ !Iskariwvth" 
	b.	and Judas the Iscariot
		oJ kai; paradou;" aujtovn  
	c.	also the one who betrayed Him
		touvtou" tou;" dwvdeka ajpevsteilen oJ !Ihsou'"  
10:5	a.	these twelve Jesus sent out
		paraggeivla" aujtoi'" levgwn 
	b.	having instructed them saying
		eij" oJdo;n ejqnw'n mh; ajpevlqhte 
	c.	do not go off to (the) road of (the) Gentiles
		kai; eij" povlin Samaritw'n mh; eijsevlqhte  
	d.	and do not enter into (a) city of Samaritans
		poreuvesqe de; ma'llon pro;" ta; provbata ta; ajpolwlovta oi[kou  
10:6	a.	but go rather to the lost sheep of the people of Israel
		poreuovmenoi de; khruvssete levgonte" o{ti 
10:7	a.	and going preach saying that
		h[ggiken hJ basileiva tw'n oujranw'n  
	b.	the Kingdom of Heaven has come near
		ajsqenou'nta" qerapeuvete  
10:8	a.	heal those being sick
		nekrou;" ejgeivrete  
	b.	raise to life (the) dead
		leprou;" kaqarivzete 
	c.	cleanse lepers
		daimovnia ejkbavllete 
	d.	drive out demons
		dwrea;n ejlavbete 
	e.	you received without cost
		dwrea;n dovte 
	f.	give without cost
		mh; kthvshsqe cruso;n mhde; a[rguron mhde; calko;n eij" ta;" zwvna"  
10:9	a.	acquire not gold and not silver and not copper money in your belts
		mh; phvran eij" oJdo;n mhde; duvo citw'na" mhde; uJpodhvmata mhde;  
10:10	a.	no bag for (the) journey and not two coats and not sandals and not (a) stick
		a[xio" ga;r oJ ejrgavth" th'" trofh'" aujtou'  
	b.	because the worker (is) worthy of his food
		eij" h}n d! a]n povlin h] kwvmhn eijsevlqhte  
10:11	a.	and into what ever town or village you enter
		ejxetavsate tiv" ejn aujth'/ a[xio" ejstin 
	b.	find out who in it is worthy
		kajkei' meivnate e{w" a]n ejxevlqhte  
	c.	and there stay until you would depart
		eijsercovmenoi de; eij" th;n oijkivan ajspavsasqe aujthvn  
10:12	a.	and then (when) entering into the house greet it
		kai; eja;n me;n h\/ hJ oijkiva ajxiva 
10:13	a.	and if then the family  is worthy
		ejlqavtw hJ eijrhvnh uJmw'n ejp! aujthvn 
	b.	let your peace come upon it
		eja;n de; mh; h\/ ajxiva 
	c.	but if it is not worthy
		hJ eijrhvnh uJmw'n pro;" uJma'" ejpistrafhvtw 
	d.	let your peace turn back to you
		kai; o}" a]n mh; devxhtai uJma'"  
10:14	a.	and who ever does not welcome you
		mhde; ajkouvsh/ tou;" lovgou" uJmw'n  
	b.	and do not listen to your words
		ejxercovmenoi e[xw th'" oijkiva" h] th'" povlew" ejkeivnh" 
	c.	going away out of that house or town
		ejktinavxate to;n koniorto;n tw'n podw'n uJmw'n 
	d.	shake off the dust of your feet
		ajmh;n levgw uJmi'n 
10:15	a.	truly I say to you
		ajnektovteron e[stai gh'/ Sodovmwn kai; Gomovrrwn ejn hJmevra/  
	b.	it will be more endurable for (the) people of Sodom and Gomorrah on (the) day of judgment
		h[ th'/ povlei ejkeivnh/  
	c.	than for that town
		ijdou;  
10:16	a.	look
		ejgw; ajpostevllw uJma'" wJ" provbata ejn mevsw/ luvkwn  
	b.	I send you out like sheep in the midst of wolves
		givnesqe ou\n frovnimoi wJ" oiJ o[fei" 
	c.	be then wise as the snakes
		kai; ajkevraioi wJ" aiJ peristeraiv 
	d.	and (be) pure like the doves
		prosevcete de; ajpo; tw'n ajnqrwvpwn 
10:17	a.	now be on your guard because of people
		paradwvsousin ga;r uJma'" eij" sunevdria  
	b.	because they will hand you over to councils
		kai; ejn tai'" sunagwgai'" aujtw'n mastigwvsousin uJma'" 
	c.	and in their synagogues they will flog you
		kai; ejpi; hJgemovna" de; kai; basilei'" ajcqhvsesqe e{neken ejmou'  
10:18	a.	even before governors and also kings you will be brought for My sake
		eij" martuvrion aujtoi'" kai; toi'" e[qnesin 
	b.	for testimony to them and to the Gentiles
		o{tan de; paradw'sin uJma'"  
10:19	a.	further when they hand you over
		mh; merimnhvshte pw'" h] tiv lalhvshte 
	b.	do not worry how or what you should say
		doqhvsetai ga;r uJmi'n ejn ejkeivnh/ th'/ w{ra/ tiv lalhvshte 
	c.	for it will be given to you in that hour what you should say
		ouj ga;r uJmei'" ejste oiJ lalou'nte"  
10:20	a.	because you are not the ones speaking
		ajlla; to; pneu'ma tou' patro;" uJmw'n to; lalou'n ejn uJmi'n 
	b.	but the Spirit of your Father (is) the One speaking in you
		paradwvsei de; ajdelfo;" ajdelfo;n eij" qavnaton 
10:21	a.	in addition brother will hand over brother to death
		kai; path;r tevknon 
	b.	and father (will hand over) son
		kai; ejpanasthvsontai tevkna ejpi; gonei'" 
	c.	and children will rise up against parents
		kai; qanatwvsousin aujtouv" 
	d.	and they will have them killed
		kai; e[sesqe misouvmenoi uJpo; pavntwn dia; to; o[noma mou  
10:22	a.	and you will be hated by all on account of My Name
		oJ de; uJpomeivna" eij" tevlo" 
	b.	but the one having endured to (the) end
		ou|to" swqhvsetai 
	c.	this one will be saved
		o{tan de; diwvkwsin uJma'" ejn th'/ povlei tauvth/  
10:23	a.	and when they persecute you in this town
		feuvgete eij" th;n eJtevran 
	b.	flee to the other
		ajmh;n ga;r levgw uJmi'n  
	c.	because truly I say to you
		ouj mh; televshte ta;" povlei" tou' !Israh;l 
	d.	you will by no means complete the towns of Israel
		e{w" a]n e[lqh/ oJ uiJo;" tou' ajnqrwvpou 
	e.	until the Son of Man would come
		oujk e[stin maqhth;" uJpe;r to;n didavskalon 
10:24	a.	(a) pupil is not above the teacher
		oujde; dou'lo" uJpe;r to;n kuvrion aujtou'  
	b.	and (a) slave not above his master
		ajrketo;n tw'/ maqhth'/ i{na 
10:25	a.	(it is) sufficient for the pupil that
		gevnhtai wJ" oJ didavskalo" aujtou' 
	b.	he should be like his teacher
		kai; oJ dou'lo" wJ" oJ kuvrio" aujtou' 
	c.	and the slave like his master
		eij to;n oijkodespovthn Beelzebou;l ejpekavlesan 
	d.	if they called the master of the household Beelzebul
		povsw/ ma'llon tou;" oijkiakou;" aujtou' 
	e.	how much more his family members
		mh; ou\n fobhqh'te aujtouv" 
10:26	a.	be then not afraid of them
		oujde;n gavr ejstin kekalummevnon  
	b.	because nothing is covered up
		o} oujk ajpokalufqhvsetai 
	c.	that will not be revealed
		kai; krupto;n 
	d.	and (nothing is) secret
		o} ouj gnwsqhvsetai 
	e.	that will not be made known
		o} levgw uJmi'n ejn th'/ skotiva/  
10:27	a.	what I say to you in the dark
		ei[pate ejn tw'/ fwtiv  
	b.	tell (it) in the light
		kai; o} eij" to; ou\" ajkouvete   
	c.	and what you hear in secret
		khruvxate ejpi; tw'n dwmavtwn 
	d.	announce (it) in public
		kai; mh; fobei'sqe ajpo; tw'n ajpoktennovntwn to; sw'ma 
10:28	a.	and do not be afraid of those killing the body
		th;n de; yuch;n mh; dunamevnwn ajpoktei'nai 
	b.	but not being able to kill the soul
		fobei'sqe de; ma'llon to;n dunavmenon 
	c.	but fear rather the One being able
		kai; yuch;n kai; sw'ma ajpolevsai ejn geevnnh/ 
	d.	to destroy both soul and body in hell
		oujci; duvo strouqiva ajssarivou pwlei'tai_ 
10:29	a.	are not indeed two sparrows sold for a penny?
		kai; e}n ejx aujtw'n ouj pesei'tai ejpi; th;n gh'n a[neu tou' patro;" uJmw'n  
	b.	yet not one of them will fall on the ground without your Father
		uJmw'n de; kai; aiJ trivce" th'" kefalh'" pa'sai hjriqmhmevnai eijsivn  
10:30	a.	further of you also the hair of your head are all counted
		mh; ou\n fobei'sqe 
10:31	a.	do not then be afraid
		pollw'n strouqivwn diafevrete uJmei'" 
	b.	you are worth more than many sparrows
		pa'" ou\n o{sti" oJmologhvsei ejn ejmoi; e[mprosqen tw'n ajnqrwvpwn  
10:32	a.	everyone then whoever will confess of Me before the people
		oJmologhvsw kagw; ejn aujtw'/ e[mprosqen tou' patrov" mou tou' ejn »toi'"¼  
	b.	also I will confess of him before My Father the One in [the] heaven
		o{sti" d! a]n ajrnhvshtai me e[mprosqen tw'n ajnqrwvpwn    
10:33	a.	but whoever would deny Me before the people
		ajrnhvsomai kagw; aujto;n e[mprosqen tou' patrov" mou tou' ejn »toi'"¼  
	b.	also I will deny him before my Father the One in [the] heaven
		mh; nomivshte o{ti 
10:34	a.	do not think that
		h\lqon balei'n eijrhvnhn ejpi; th;n gh'n 
	b.	I came to bring about peace on the earth
		oujk h\lqon balei'n eijrhvnhn ajlla; mavcairan  
	c.	I came not to bring about peace but (a) conflict
		h\lqon ga;r dicavsai  
10:35	a.	for I came to cause revolt
		a[nqrwpon kata; tou' patro;" aujtou' 
	b.	(a) man against his father
		kai; qugatevra kata; th'" mhtro;" aujth'" 
	c.	and (a) daughter against her mother
		kai; nuvmfhn kata; th'" penqera'" aujth'" 
	d.	and (a) daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law
		kai; ejcqroi; tou' ajnqrwvpou oiJ oijkiakoi; aujtou'  
10:36	a.	and (the) enemies of (a) man (will be) his relatives
		oJ filw'n patevra h] mhtevra uJpe;r ejme; 
10:37	a.	the one loving father or mother more than Me
		oujk e[stin mou a[xio" 
	b.	is not worthy of Me
		kai; oJ filw'n uiJo;n h] qugatevra uJpe;r ejme; 
	c.	and the one loving son or daughter more than Me
		oujk e[stin mou a[xio" 
	d.	is not worthy of Me
		kai; o}" ouj lambavnei to;n stauro;n aujtou' 
10:38	a.	and who does not take his cross
		kai; ajkolouqei' ojpivsw mou 
	b.	and follow after Me
		oujk e[stin mou a[xio" 
	c.	is not worthy of Me
		oJ euJrw;n th;n yuch;n aujtou' 
10:39	a.	the one finding his life
		ajpolevsei aujthvn 
	b.	will lose it
		kai; oJ ajpolevsa" th;n yuch;n aujtou' e{neken ejmou' 
	c.	yet the one having lost his life because of Me
		euJrhvsei aujthvn 
	d.	he will find it
		oJ decovmeno" uJma'" 
10:40	a.	the one receiving you
		ejme; devcetai 
	b.	receives Me
		kai; oJ ejme; decovmeno" 
	c.	and the one receiving Me
		devcetai to;n ajposteivlanta me 
	d.	receives the One having sent Me
		oJ decovmeno" profhvthn eij" o[noma profhvtou  
10:41	a.	the one receiving (a) prophet in view that (he) is (a) prophet
		misqo;n profhvtou lhvmyetai 
	b.	will receive (the) reward of (a) prophet
		kai; oJ decovmeno" divkaion eij" o[noma  
	c.	and the one receiving (a) righteous one in view that (he) is (a) righteous one
		misqo;n dikaivou lhvmyetai 
	d.	will receive (the) reward of (a) righteous one
		kai; o}" a]n potivsh/ e{na tw'n mikrw'n touvtwn pothvrion yucrou' movnon  
10:42	a.	and who ever gives to drink one of these least ones only (a) cup of cold (water) in view that (he) is (a) disciple
		ajmh;n levgw uJmi'n 
	b.	truly I say to you
		ouj mh; ajpolevsh/ to;n misqo;n aujtou' 
	c.	by no means he will lose his reward
		kai; ejgevneto o{te ejtevlesen oJ !Ihsou'" diatavsswn toi'" dwvdeka  
10:43	a.	and then it happened when Jesus finished instructing His twelve disciples
		metevbh ejkei'qen tou' didavskein kai; khruvssein ejn tai'" povlesin  
	b.	He departed from there to teach and preach in their towns
