		ojye; de; Sabbavtwn  
28:1	a.	now after (the) Sabbath
		th'/ ejpifwskouvsh/ eij" mivan sabbavtwn  
	b.	at the dawning on (the) first (day) of (the) week
		h\lqen Maria;m hJ Magdalhnh; kai; hJ a[llh Mariva qewrh'sai to;n  tavfon 
	c.	Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to observe the tomb
		kai; ijdou; 
28:2	a.	and look
		seismo;" ejgevneto mevga"  
	b.	(a) great earthquake occurred
		a[ggelo" ga;r kurivou kataba;" ejx oujranou' 
	c.	for (an) angel of (the) Lord having descended from heaven
		kai; proselqw;n ajpekuvlisen to;n livqon 
	d.	and having approached rolled away the stone
		kai; ejkavqhto ejpavnw aujtou' 
	e.	and then sat down upon it
		h\n de; hJ eijdeva aujtou' wJ" ajstraph; 
28:3	a.	and his appearance was as lightning
		kai; to; e[nduma aujtou' leuko;n wJ" ciwvn 
	b.	and his clothing white as snow
		ajpo; de; tou' fovbou aujtou' ejseivsqhsan oiJ throu'nte"  
28:4	a.	and because of fear for him those guarding were filled with anxiety
		kai; ejgenhvqhsan wJ" nekroiv 
	b.	and they became like dead ones
		ajpokriqei;" de; oJ a[ggelo" ei\pen tai'" gunaixivn 
28:5	a.	then having spoken the angel said to the women
		mh; fobei'sqe uJmei'" 
	b.	you must not fear
		oi\da ga;r o{ti  
	c.	because I know that
		!Ihsou'n to;n ejstaurwmevnon zhtei'te 
	d.	you are seeking Jesus the crucified
		oujk e[stin w|de 
28:6	a.	He is not here
		hjgevrqh ga;r kaqw;" ei\pen  
	b.	because He was raised to life as He said
		deu'te 
	c.	come here
		i[dete to;n tovpon o{pou e[keito  
	d.	see the place where He lay
		kai; tacu; poreuqei'sai  
28:7	a.	then go away quickly
		ei[pate toi'" maqhtai'" aujtou' o{ti 
	b.	tell His disciples that
		hjgevrqh ajpo; tw'n nekrw'n 
	c.	He was raised from the dead
		kai; ijdou; 
	d.	and look
		proavgei uJma'" eij" th;n Galilaivan 
	e.	He is going ahead of you to Galilee
		ejkei' aujto;n o[yesqe 
	f.	there you will see Him
		ijdou; 
	g.	look
		ei\pon uJmi'n 
	h.	I told you
		kai; ajpelqou'sai tacu; ajpo; tou' mnhmeivou meta; fovbou kai; cara'"  megavlh" 
28:8	a.	then having left quickly from the grave with fear and great joy
		e[dramon ajpaggei'lai toi'" maqhtai'" aujtou' 
	b.	they ran to inform His disciples
		kai; ijdou; 
28:9	a.	and look
		!Ihsou'" uJphvnthsen aujtai'" 
	b.	Jesus met up with them
		levgwn caivrete  
	c.	saying greetings
		aiJ de; proselqou'sai  
	d.	and the women having come to (Him)
		ejkravthsan aujtou' tou;" povda"  
	e.	took hold of His feet
		kai; prosekuvnhsan aujtw'/ 
	f.	and they worshipped Him
		tovte levgei aujtai'" oJ !Ihsou'"  
28:10	a.	then Jesus says to them
		mh; fobei'sqe 
	b.	do not be afraid
		uJpavgete ajpaggeivlate toi'" ajdelfoi'" mou  
	c.	go tell My brothers
		i{na ajpevlqwsin eij" th;n Galilaivan  
	d.	that they should go to Galilee
		kakei' me o[yontai 
	e.	and there they will see Me
		poreuomevnwn de; aujtw'n 
28:11	a.	now while they were going
		ijdouv 
	b.	look
		tine" th'" koustwdiva" ejlqovnte" eij" th;n povlin 
	c.	some of the guard having gone into the city
		ajphvggeilan toi'" ajrciereu'sin a{panta ta; genovmena 
	d.	told the chief preists all the things having happened
		kai; sunacqevnte" meta; tw'n presbutevrwn  
28:12	a.	then having gathered with the elders
		sumbouvlion te labovnte" 
	b.	and having taken council
		ajrguvria iJkana; e[dwkan toi'" stratiwvtai" 
	c.	they gave enough money to the soldiers
		levgonte" 
28:13	a.	saying
		ei[pate o{ti 
	b.	you must say that
		oiJ maqhtai; aujtou' nukto;" ejlqovnte"  
	c.	His disciples having come during (the) night
		e[kleyan aujto;n  
	d.	stole Him
		hJmw'n koimwmevnwn 
	e.	while we were asleep
		kai; eja;n ajkousqh'/ tou'to ejpi; tou' hJgemovno" 
28:14	a.	and if this would be heard by the governor
		hJmei'" peivsomen »aujto;n¼ 
	b.	we will convince [him]
		kai; uJma'" ajmerivmnou" poihvsomen 
	c.	and we will cause you not to be worried
		oiJ de; labovnte" ta; ajrguvria  
28:15	a.	then they having received the money
		ejpoivhsan wJ" ejdidavcqhsan 
	b.	they did as they were taught
		kai; diefhmivsqh oJ lovgo" ou|to" para; !Ioudaivoi" mevcri th'" shvmeron   	»hJmevra"¼  
	c.	and this statement was spread among (the) Jews up to the present [days]
		oiJ de; e{ndeka maqhtai; ejporeuvqhsan eij" th;n Galilaivan  
28:16	a.	now the eleven disciples made their way toward Galilee
		eij" to; o[ro" ou| ejtavxato aujtoi'" oJ !Ihsou'" 
	b.	to the mountain where Jesus commanded them
		kai; ijdovnte" aujto;n prosekuvnhsan  
28:17	a.	then having seen Him they worshipped (Him)
		oiJ de; ejdivstasan 
	b.	yet some doubted
		kai; proselqw;n oJ !Ihsou'" ejlavlhsen aujtoi'" levgwn 
28:18	a.	then having approached Jesus spoke to them saying
		ejdovqh moi pa'sa ejxousiva ejn oujranw'/ kai; ejpi; »th'"¼ gh'" 
	b.	to Me was given all power in heaven and on [the] earth
		poreuqevnte" ou\n maqhteuvsate pavnta ta; e[qnh 
28:19	a.	having gone then make all the nations disciples
		baptivzonte" aujtou;" eij" to; o[noma tou' patro;" kai; tou' uiJou' kai; tou'  aJgivou pneuvmato" 
	b.	baptising them in the Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit
		didavskonte" aujtou;" threi'n pavnta 
28:20	a.	teaching them to obey all (the) things
		o{sa ejneteilavmhn uJmi'n 
	b.	as many as I commanded you
		kai; ijdou; 
	c.	and look
		ejgw; meq! uJmw'n eijmi pavsa" ta;" hJmevra" e{w" th'" sunteleiva" tou'  aijw'no" 
	d.	I am with you all the days up to the end of the age
