		tovte oJ !Ihsou'" ajnhvcqh eij" th;n e[rhmon uJpo; tou' pneuvmato"  
4:1	a.	then Jesus was led up into the desert by the Spirit
		peirasqh'nai uJpo; tou' diabovlou 
	b.	to be tempted by the devil
		kai; nhsteuvsa" hJmevra" tesseravkonta kai; nuvkta" tesseravkonta  
4:2	a.	and having fasted forty days and forty nights
		u{steron ejpeivnasen 
	b.	finally He was hungry
		kai; proselqw;n oJ peiravzwn ei\pen aujtw'/  
4:3	a.	and the tempter having come to Him said
		eij uiJo;" ei\ tou' qeou' 
	b.	if You are (the) Son of God
		eijpe; i{na oiJ livqoi ou|toi a[rtoi gevnwntai 
	c.	speak so that these stones may become bread
		oJ de; ajpokriqei;" ei\pen 
4:4	a.	but He having answered said
		gevgraptai 
	b.	it is written
		oujk ejp! a[rtw/ movnw/ zhvsetai oJ a[nqrwpo" 
	c.	not by bread alone shall (a) person live
		ajll! ejpi; panti; rJhvmati ejkporeuomevnw/ dia; stovmato" qeou' 
	d.	but by each word coming out through (the) mouth of God
		tovte paralambavnei aujto;n oJ diavbolo" eij" th;n aJgivan povlin 
4:5	a.	then the devil took Him along to the holy city
		kai; e[sthsen aujto;n ejpi; to; pteruvgion tou' iJerou' 
	b.	and made Him stand on the pinnacle of the temple
		kai; levgei aujtw'/  
4:6	a.	and he says to Him
		eij uiJo;" ei\ tou' qeou'  
	b.	if You are (the) Son of God
		bavle seauto;n kavtw 
	c.	throw Yourself down
		gevgraptai ga;r o{ti 
	d.	for it is written that
		toi'" ajggevloi" aujtou' ejntelei'tai peri; sou' 
	e.	to His angels He gives command about You
		kai; ejpi; ceirw'n ajrou'sin se 
	f.	and they will carry You by (their) hands
		mhvpote proskovyh/" pro;" livqon to;n povda sou  
	g.	so that You may not strike Your foot against (a) stone
		e[fh aujtw'/ oJ !Ihsou'" 
4:7	a.	Jesus said to him
		pavlin gevgraptai  
	b.	it is also written
		oujk ejkpeiravsei" kuvrion to;n qeovn sou 
	c.	you shall not tempt (the) Lord your God
		pavlin paralambavnei aujto;n oJ diavbolo" eij" o[ro" uJyhlo;n livan  
4:8	a.	again the devil takes Him along to (a) very high mountain
		kai; deivknusin aujtw'/ pavsa" ta;" basileiva" tou' kovsmou  
	b.	and he shows Him all the kingdoms of the world
		kai; th;n dovxan aujtw'n  
	c.	and also their splendour
		kai; ei\pen aujtw'/ 
4:9	a.	and he said to Him
		tau'ta soi pavnta dwvsw 
	b.	this all I will give to You
		eja;n pesw;n proskunhvsh/" moi  
	c.	if having fallen down You worship me
		tovte levgei aujtw'/ oJ !Ihsou'"  
4:10	a.	then Jesus says to him
		u{page Satana' 
	b.	go away Satan
		gevgraptai gavr 
	c.	for it is written
		kuvrion to;n qeovn sou proskunhvsei" 
	d.	(the) Lord your God you shall worship
		kai; aujtw'/ movnw/ latreuvsei" 
	e.	and Him alone you shall worship
		tovte ajfivhsin aujto;n oJ diavbolo"  
4:11	a.	then the devil leaves Him
		kai; ijdou; 
	b.	and look
		a[ggeloi prosh'lqon  
	c.	angels came to (Him)
		kai; dihkovnoun aujtw'/ 
	d.	and they served Him
		ajkouvsa" de; o{ti  
4:12	a.	now having heard that
		!Iwavnnh" paredovqh  
	b.	John was handed over
		ajnecwvrhsen eij" th;n Galilaivan 
	c.	He went away to Galilee
		kai; katalipw;n th;n Nazara; 
4:13	a.	and having left Nazareth
		ejlqw;n katwv/khsen eij" Kafarnaou;m th;n paraqalassivan 
	b.	He having come settled in Capernaum the one by the seaside
		ejn oJrivoi" Zaboulw;n kai; Nefqalivm 
	c.	in (the) regions (of) Zebulun and Naphtali
		i{na plhrwqh'/ to; rJhqe;n dia; !Hsai?ou tou' profhvtou  
4:14	a.	so that the thing spoken by Isaiah the prophet came true
		levgonto" 
	b.	saying
		gh' Zaboulw;n kai; gh' Nefqalivm 
4:15	a.	land (of) Zebulun and land (of) Napthali
		oJdo;n qalavssh" 
	b.	road of (the) sea
		pevran tou' !Iordavnou  
	c.	across the Jordan
		Galilaiva tw'n ejqnw'n 
	d.	Galilee of the Gentiles
		oJ lao;" oJ kaqhvmeno" ejn skovtei 
4:16	a.	the people living in darkness
		fw'" ei\den mevga 
	b.	saw (a) great light
		kai; toi'" kaqhmevnoi" ejn cwvra/ kai; skia'/ qanavtou  
	c.	and to those living in (the) land and shadow of death
		fw'" ajnevteilen aujtoi'" 
	d.	(a) light dawned on them
		ajpo; tovte h[rxato oJ !Ihsou'" khruvssein  
4:17	a.	from then Jesus began to preach
		kai; levgein 
	b.	and to say
		metanoei'te  
	c.	repent
		h[ggiken ga;r hJ basileiva tw'n oujranw'n  
	d.	because the Kingdom of Heaven has drawn near
		peripatw'n de; para; th;n qavlassan th'" Galilaiva"  
4:18	a.	now walking along the Sea of Galilee
		ei\den duvo ajdelfouv" 
	b.	He saw two brothers
		Sivmwna to;n legovmenon Pevtron 
	c.	Simon the one called Peter
		kai; !Andrevan to;n ajdelfo;n aujtou' 
	d.	and Andrew his brother
		bavllonta" ajmfivblhstron eij" th;n qavlassan 
	e.	throwing (a) net into the sea
		h\san ga;r aJliei'"  
	f.	because they were fishermen
		kai; levgei aujtoi'"  
4:19	a.	and He says to them
		deu'te ojpivsw mou 
	b.	come here after Me
		kai; poihvsw uJma'" aJliei'" ajnqrwvpwn 
	c.	and I will make you fishers of people
		oiJ de; eujqevw" ajfevnte" ta; divktua  
4:20	a.	and they right away having left the nets
		hjkolouvqhsan aujtw'/ 
	b.	they followed Him
		kai; proba;" ejkei'qen 
4:21	a.	and having moved on from there
		ei\den a[llou" duvo ajdelfouv" 
	b.	He saw two other brothers
		!Iavkwbon to;n tou' Zebedaivou  
	c.	James the son of Zebedee
		kai; !Iwavnnhn to;n ajdelfo;n aujtou' 
	d.	and John his brother
		ejn tw'/ ploivw/ meta; Zebedaivou tou' patro;" aujtw'n 
	e.	(being) in the boat with Zebedee their father
		katartivzonta" ta; divktua aujtw'n 
	f.	getting ready their nets
		kai; ejkavlesen aujtouv" 
	g.	and He called them
		oiJ de; eujqevw" ajfevnte" to; ploi'on kai; to;n patevra aujtw'n  
4:22	a.	and they right away having left the boat and their father
		hjkolouvqhsan aujtw'/ 
	b.	they followed Him
		kai; perih'gen ejn o{lh/ th'/ Galilaiva/  
4:23	a.	then He went about in all (of) Galilee
		didavskwn ejn tai'" sunagwgai'" aujtw'n 
	b.	teaching in their synagogues
		kai; khruvsswn to; eujaggevlion th'" basileiva"  
	c.	and preaching the good news of the Kingdom
		kai; qerapeuvwn pa'san novson kai; pa'san malakivan ejn tw'/ law'/ 
	d.	and healing every disease and every sickness among the people
		kai; ajph'lqen hJ ajkoh; aujtou' eij" o{lhn th;n Surivan  
4:24	a.	and the news about Him went off into the whole Syria
		kai; proshvnegkan aujtw'/ 
	b.	and they brought to Him
		pavnta" tou;" kakw'" e[conta" poikivlai" novsoi" 
	c.	all those being ill with various diseases
		kai; basavnoi" sunecomevnou" 
	d.	and restrained by severe pain
		»kai;¼ daimonizomevnou" 
	e.	[and] being demon-possed
		kai; selhniazomevnou" 
	f.	and being epileptic
		kai; paralutikouv" 
	g.	and paralysed
		kai; ejqeravpeusen aujtouv" 
	h.	and He healed them
		kai; hjkolouvqhsan aujtw'/ o[cloi polloi; ajpo; th'" Galilaiva" 
4:25	a.	and large crowds followed Him from Galilee
		kai; Dekapovlew" 
	b.	and (from) Decapolis
		kai; @Ierosoluvmwn 
	c.	and (from) Jerusalem
		kai; !Ioudaiva"  
	d.	and (from) Judea
		kai; pevran tou' !Iordavnou 
	e.	and (from) accross the Jordan
