		kai; h[kousa megavlh" fwnh'" ejk tou' naou'  
16:1	a.	then I heard (a) loud voice from the temple
		legouvsh" toi'" eJpta; ajggevloi"  
	b.	saying to the seven angels
		uJpavgete  
	c.	go along
		kai; ejkcevete ta;" eJpta; fiavla" tou' qumou' tou' qeou' eij" th;n gh'n  
	d.	and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God onto the land
		kai; ajph'lqen oJ prw'to"  
16:2	a.	then the first departed
		kai; ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' eij" th;n gh'n  
	b.	and he poured out his bowl onto the earth
		kai; ejgevneto e{lko" kako;n kai; ponhro;n ejpi; tou;" ajnqrwvpou"  
	c.	and (a) harmful and sickly sore came to be upon the people
		tou;" e[conta" to; cavragma tou' qhrivou  
	d.	the ones having the mark of the beast
		kai; tou;" proskunou'nta" th'/ eijkovni aujtou'  
	e.	and the ones worshipping his image
		kai; oJ deuvtero" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' eij" th;n qavlassan  
16:3	a.	then the second poured out his bowl onto the sea
		kai; ejgevneto ai|ma wJ" nekrou'  
	b.	and it became blood like of (a) dead one
		kai; pa'sa yuch; zwh'" ajpevqanen ta; ejn th'/ qalavssh/  
	c.	and every living creature died the ones in the sea
		kai; oJ trivto" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' eij" tou;" potamou;"  
16:4	a.	then the third poured out his bowl onto the rivers
		kai; ta;" phga;" tw'n uJdavtwn  
	b.	and the springs of the waters
		kai; ejgevneto ai|ma  
	c.	and it became blood
		kai; h[kousa tou' ajggevlou tw'n uJdavtwn levgonto"  
16:5	a.	then I heard the angel of the waters saying
		divkaio" ei\ oJ w]n  
	b.	righteous are You the One being
		kai; oJ h\n  
	c.	and the One (who) was
		oJ o{sio"  
	d.	the holy One
		o{ti tau'ta e[krina"  
	e.	because You judged these things
		o{ti ai|ma aJgivwn kai; profhtw'n ejxevcean  
16:6	a.	because they murdered holy ones and prophets
		kai; ai|ma aujtoi'" devdwka" piei'n  
	b.	and You have given them blood to drink
		a[xioi eijsin  
	c.	they are deserving
		kai; h[kousa tou' qusiasthrivou levgonto"  
16:7	a.	then I heard the altar saying
		nai; kuvrie oJ qeo;" oJ pantokravtwr  
	b.	yes Lord God the Almighty
		ajlhqinai; kai; divkaiai aiJ krivsei" sou  
	c.	true and proper (are) Your judgments
		kai; oJ tevtarto" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' ejpi; to;n h{lion  
16:8	a.	then the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun
		kai; ejdovqh aujtw'/ kaumativsai tou;" ajnqrwvpou" ejn puriv  
	b.	and it was given to him to harm by heat the people with fire
		kai; ejkaumativsqhsan oiJ a[nqrwpoi kau'ma mevga  
16:9	a.	yes the people were scorched by (a) great scorching heat
		kai; ejblasfhvmhsan to; o[noma tou' qeou'  
	b.	yet the Name of God was blasphemed
		tou' e[conto" th;n ejxousivan ejpi; ta;" plhga;" tauvta"  
	c.	the One having the power over these plagues
		kai; ouj metenovhsan dou'nai aujtw'/ dovxan  
	d.	yet they did not repent to give Him glory
		kai; oJ pevmpto" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' ejpi; to;n qrovnon tou'  
16:10	a.	then the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast
		kai; ejgevneto hJ basileiva aujtou' ejskotwmevnh  
	b.	and his kingdom happened to having become dark
		kai; ejmasw'nto ta;" glwvssa" aujtw'n ejk tou' povnou  
	c.	and they were biting their tongues because of the pain
		kai; ejblasfhvmhsan to;n qeo;n tou' oujranou'  
16:11	a.	yet they blasphemed the God of heaven
		ejk tw'n povnwn aujtw'n kai; ejk tw'n eJlkw'n aujtw'n  
	b.	because of their pains and because of their sores
		kai; ouj metenovhsan ejk tw'n e[rgwn aujtw'n  
	c.	yet they did not repent from their deeds
		kai; oJ e{kto" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou'  
16:12	a.	then the sixth poured out his bowl
		ejpi; to;n potamo;n to;n mevgan to;n !Eufravthn  
	b.	on the great river the Euphrates
		kai; ejxhravnqh to; u{dwr aujtou'  
	c.	and its water was dried up
		i{na eJtoimasqh'/ hJ oJdo;" tw'n basilevwn  
	d.	so that the road of the kings would be made ready
		tw'n ajpo; ajnatolh'" hJlivou  
	e.	of the ones from (the) rising of (the) sun
		kai; ei\don ejk tou' stovmato" tou' dravkonto"  
16:13	a.	and then I saw from the mouth of the dragon
		kai; ejk tou' stovmato" tou' qhrivou  
	b.	as well as from the mouth of the beast
		kai; ejk tou' stovmato" tou' yeudoprofhvtou  
	c.	and also from the mouth of the false prophet
		pneuvmata triva ajkavqarta wJ" bavtracoi  
	d.	three unclean spirits like frogs
		eijsi;n ga;r pneuvmata daimonivwn poiou'nta shmei'a  
16:14	a.	for they are evil spirits of demons performing signs
		a} ejkporeuvetai ejpi; tou;" basilei'" th'" oijkoumevnh" o{lh"  
	b.	who are going forth to the kings of the whole world
		sunagagei'n aujtou;" eij" to;n povlemon  
	c.	to gather them together for the battle
		th'" hJmevra" th'" megavlh" tou' qeou' tou' pantokravtoro"  
	d.	of the great day of God the Almighty
		ijdou;  
16:15	a.	pay attention
		e[rcomai wJ" klevpth"  
	b.	I am coming like (a) thief
		makavrio" oJ grhgorw'n  
	c.	fortunate (is) the one being awake
		kai; thrw'n ta; iJmavtia aujtou'  
	d.	and guarding his clothes
		i{na mh; gumno;" peripath'/  
	e.	so that he may not walk around naked
		kai; blevpwsin th;n ajschmosuvnhn aujtou'  
	f.	and they may see his shameful state
		kai; sunhvgagen aujtou;" eij" to;n tovpon  
16:16	a.	then they gathered them together into the place
		to;n kalouvmenon @Ebrai>sti; @Armagedwvn  
	b.	the one called in Hebrew Armageddon
		kai; oJ e{bdomo" ejxevceen th;n fiavlhn aujtou' ejpi; to;n ajevra  
16:17	a.	then the seventh poured out his bowl upon the air
		kai; ejxh'lqen fwnh; megavlh ejk tou' naou'  
	b.	and (a) loud voice came out of the temple
		ajpo; tou' qrovnou levgousa  
	c.	from the throne saying
		gevgonen  
	d.	it has happened
		kai; ejgevnonto ajstrapai; kai; fwnai; kai; brontai;  
16:18	a.	then occurred lightnings and sounds and thunders
		kai; seismo;" ejgevneto mevga"  
	b.	also (a) great earthquake happened
		oi|o" oujk ejgevneto ajf! ou| a[nqrwpo" ejgevneto ejpi; th'" gh'"  
	c.	like did not happen since which (time a) person was on the earth
		thlikou'to" seismo;" ou{tw mevga"  
	d.	so great (an) earthquake so big
		kai; ejgevneto hJ povli" hJ megavlh eij" triva mevrh  
16:19	a.	then the big city became into three parts
		kai; aiJ povlei" tw'n ejqnw'n e[pesan  
	b.	and the cities of the nations fell
		kai; Babulw;n hJ megavlh ejmnhvsqh ejnwvpion tou' qeou'  
	c.	yes Babylon the great was remembered in the sight of God
		dou'nai aujth'/ to; pothvrion tou' oi[nou tou' qumou' th'" ojrgh'" aujtou'  
	d.	to give to her the cup of the wine of the fury of His anger
		kai; pa'sa nh'so" e[fugen  
16:20	a.	then every island disappeared quickly
		kai; o[rh oujc euJrevqhsan  
	b.	and mountains were not found
		kai; cavlaza megavlh wJ" talantiaiva  
16:21	a.	and big hail approximately weighing a talent
		katabaivnei ejk tou' oujranou' ejpi; tou;" ajnqrwvpou"  
	b.	came down from the sky upon the people
		kai; ejblasfhvmhsan oiJ a[nqrwpoi to;n qeo;n  
	c.	then the people blasphemed God
		ejk th'" plhgh'" th'" calavzh"  
	d.	because of the plague of the hail
		o{ti megavlh ejsti;n hJ plhgh; aujth'" sfovdra  
	e.	because the plague of it is exceedingly great
