		kai; e[deixen moi potamo;n u{dato" zwh'"  
22:1	a.	then he showed me (a) river of water of life
		lampro;n wJ" kruvstallon  
	b.	sparkling like crystal
		ejkporeuovmenon ejk tou' qrovnou tou' qeou' kai; tou' ajrnivou  
	c.	going out of the throne of God and of the Lamb
		ejn mevsw/ th'" plateiva" aujth'"  
22:2	a.	in the middle of its wide street
		kai; tou' potamou' ejnteu'qen kai; ejkei'qen  
	b.	and of the river from here and from there
		xuvlon zwh'" poiou'n karpou;" dwvdeka  
	c.	(a) tree of life producing fruit twelve (months)
		kata; mh'na e{kaston ajpodidou'n to;n karpo;n aujtou'  
	d.	during each month bearing its fruit
		kai; ta; fuvlla tou' xuvlou eij" qerapeivan tw'n ejqnw'n  
	e.	also the leaves of the tree (are) for healing of the nations
		kai; pa'n katavqema oujk e[stai e[ti  
22:3	a.	further anything accursed will not be anymore
		kai; oJ qrovno" tou' qeou' kai; tou' ajrnivou ejn aujth'/ e[stai  
	b.	indeed the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it
		kai; oiJ dou'loi aujtou' latreuvsousin aujtw'/  
	c.	and also His servants will worship Him
		kai; o[yontai to; provswpon aujtou'  
22:4	a.	indeed they will see His face
		kai; to; o[noma aujtou' ejpi; tw'n metwvpwn aujtw'n  
	b.	and His Name (will be) on their foreheads
		kai; nu;x oujk e[stai e[ti   
22:5	a.	further night will not be anymore
		kai; oujk e[cousin creivan fwto;" luvcnou kai; fwto;" hJlivou  
	b.	indeed they have no need of light of (a) lamp and light of (the) sun
		o{ti kuvrio" oJ qeo;" fwtivsei ejp! aujtouv"  
	c.	because the Lord God will shine upon them
		kai; basileuvsousin eij" tou;" aijw'na" tw'n aijwvnwn  
	d.	yes they will reign as kings forever and ever
		kai; ei\pen moi  
22:6	a.	then he said to me
		ou|toi oiJ lovgoi pistoi; kai; ajlhqinoiv  
	b.	these words (are) trustworthy and true
		kai; oJ kuvrio" oJ qeo;" tw'n pneumavtwn tw'n profhtw'n  
	c.	surely the Lord the God of the inner beings of the prophets
		ajpevsteilen to;n a[ggelon aujtou'  
	d.	sent His angel
		dei'xai toi'" douvloi" aujtou'  
	e.	to show His servants
		a} dei' genevsqai ejn tavcei  
	f.	what must happen very soon
		kai; ijdou;  
22:7	a.	now pay attention
		e[rcomai tacuv  
	b.	I am coming soon
		makavrio" oJ thrw'n tou;" lovgou" th'" profhteiva" tou' biblivou  
	c.	fortunate (is) the one obeying the words of the prophecy of this book
		kagw; !Iwavnnh" oJ ajkouvwn kai; blevpwn tau'ta  
22:8	a.	indeed I John the one hearing and seeing these things
		kai; o{te h[kousa kai; e[bleya  
	b.	yes when I heard and I saw
		e[pesa proskunh'sai e[mprosqen tw'n podw'n tou' ajggevlou  
	c.	I fell down to prostrate myself before the feet of the angel
		tou' deiknuvonto" moi tau'ta  
	d.	the one showing me these things
		kai; levgei moi  
22:9	a.	and so he says to me
		o{ra mhv  
	b.	pay attention (do) not
		suvndoulo" souv eijmi  
	c.	I am (a) fellow servant of you
		kai; tw'n ajdelfw'n sou tw'n profhtw'n  
	d.	and also of your fellow believers the prophets
		kai; tw'n throuvntwn tou;" lovgou" tou' biblivou touvtou  
	e.	and of those obeying the words of this book
		tw'/ qew'/ proskuvnhson  
	f.	worship God
		kai; levgei moi  
22:10	a.	then he says to me
		mh; sfragivsh/" tou;" lovgou" th'" profhteiva" tou' biblivou touvtou  
	b.	do not seal the words of the prophesy of this book
		oJ kairo;" ga;r ejgguv" ejstin  
	c.	because the time is near
		oJ ajdikw'n  
22:11	a.	the one acting unjustly
		ajdikhsavtw e[ti  
	b.	let him still act unjustly
		kai; oJ rJuparo;"  
	c.	and the one morally impure
		rJupanqhvtw e[ti  
	d.	let him still be morally impure
		kai; oJ divkaio" dikaiosuvnhn poihsavtw e[ti  
	e.	and let the righteous one still do righteousness
		kai; oJ a{gio" aJgiasqhvtw e[ti  
	f.	and let the dedicated one still be dedicated
		ijdou;  
22:12	a.	pay attention
		e[rcomai tacuv  
	b.	I am coming soon
		kai; oJ misqov" mou met! ejmou'  
	c.	and My reward (is) with Me
		ajpodou'nai eJkavstw/ wJ" to; e[rgon ejsti;n aujtou'  
	d.	to reward everyone as his work is
		ejgw; to; a[lfa kai; to; w\  
22:13	a.	I (am) the alpha and the omega
		oJ prw'to" kai; oJ e[scato"  
	b.	the first and the last
		hJ ajrch; kai; to; tevlo"  
	c.	the origin and the end
		makavrioi oiJ pluvnonte" ta;" stola;" aujtw'n  
22:14	a.	fortunate (are) the ones washing their long robes
		i{na e[stai hJ ejxousiva aujtw'n ejpi; to; xuvlon th'" zwh'"    
	b.	so that their right will be even to the tree of life
		kai; toi'" pulw'sin eijsevlqwsin eij" th;n povlin  
	c.	and by the gates they may enter into the city
		e[xw oiJ kuvne" kai; oiJ favrmakoi  
22:15	a.	outside (are) the perverts and the sorcerers
		kai; oiJ povrnoi kai; oiJ fonei'"  
	b.	and the sexually immoral persons and the murderers
		kai; oiJ eijdwlolavtrai   
	c.	and the worshippers of idols
		kai; pa'" filw'n kai; poiw'n yeu'do"  
	d.	and all loving and doing (the) lie
		ejgw; !Ihsou'" e[pemya to;n a[ggelon mou  
22:16	a.	I Jesus sent My angel
		marturh'sai uJmi'n tau'ta ejpi; tai'" ejkklhsivai"  
	b.	to witness these things to you for the churches
		ejgwv eijmi hJ rJivza kai; to; gevno" Dauivd  
	c.	I am the offspring and the descendant of David
		oJ ajsth;r oJ lampro;" oJ prwi>nov"  
	d.	the bright morning star
		kai; to; pneu'ma kai; hJ nuvmfh levgousin  
22:17	a.	now the Spirit and the bride say
		e[rcou  
	b.	come
		kai; oJ ajkouvwn eijpavtw  
	c.	and let the one hearing say
		e[rcou  
	d.	come
		kai; oJ diyw'n  
	e.	and the one being thirsty
		ejrcevsqw  
	f.	let him come
		oJ qevlwn labevtw u{dwr zwh'" dwreavn  
	g.	let the one desiring receive (the) water of life without cost
		marturw' ejgw; panti; tw'/ ajkouvonti  
22:18	a.	I witness to everyone hearing
		tou;" lovgou" th'" profhteiva" tou' biblivou touvtou  
	b.	the words of the prophecy of this book
		ejavn ti" ejpiqh'/ ejp! aujta  
	c.	if someone would add to them
		ejpiqhvsei oJ qeo;" ejp! aujto;n ta;" plhga;"  
	d.	God will add to him the plagues
		ta;" gegrammevna" ejn tw'/ biblivw/ touvtw/  
	e.	the ones having been written in this book
		kai; ejavn ti" ajfevlh/  
22:19	a.	and if someone would take away
		ajpo; tw'n lovgwn tou' biblivou th'" profhteiva" tauvth"  
	b.	from the words of the book of this prophecy
		ajfelei' oJ qeo;" to; mevro" aujtou'  
	c.	God will take away his part
		ajpo; tou' xuvlou th'" zwh'"  
	d.	from the tree of life
		kai; ejk th'" povlew" th'" aJgiva"  
	e.	and from the city the holy one
		tw'n gegrammevnwn ejn tw'/ biblivw/ touvtw/  
	f.	of the things having been written (about) in this book
		levgei oJ marturw'n tau'ta  
22:20	a.	the One testifying these things says
		naiv e[rcomai tacuv  
	b.	yes I come soon
		ajmhvn e[rcou kuvrie !Ihsou'  
	c.	indeed come Lord Jesus
		hJ cavri" tou' kurivou !Ihsou' meta; pavntwn  
22:21	a.	the kindness of the Lord Jesus (is) with all
