		meta; tou'to ei\don tevssara" ajggevlou"  
7:1	a.	after this I saw four angels
		eJstw'ta" ejpi; ta;" tevssara" gwniva" th'" gh''"  
	b.	having taken stand at the four corners of the earth
		kratou'nta" tou;" tevssara" ajnevmou" th'" gh'"  
	c.	holding on to the four winds of the earth
		i{na mh; pnevh/ a[nemo" ejpi; th'" gh'"  
	d.	so that (the) wind would not blow upon the earth
		mhvte ejpi; th'" qalavssh" mhvte ejpi; pa'n devndron  
	e.	neither on the sea nor against any tree
		kai; ei\don a[llon a[ggelon  
7:2	a.	then I saw another angel
		ajnabaivnonta ajpo; ajnatolh'" hJlivou  
	b.	coming up from (the) rising of (the) sun
		e[conta sfragi'da qeou' zw'nto"  
	c.	holding (the) seal of (the) living God
		kai; e[kraxen fwnh'/ megavlh/ toi'" tevssarsin ajggevloi"  
	d.	and he shouted with (a) loud voice to the four angels
		oi|" ejdovqh aujtoi'" ajdikh'sai th;n gh'n kai; th;n qavlassan  
	e.	to whom was given to them to harm the land and the sea
		levgwn  
7:3	a.	saying
		mh; ajdikhvshte th;n gh'n mhvte th;n qavlassan mhvte ta; devndra  
	b.	do not harm the land nor the sea nor the trees
		a[cri sfragivswmen tou;" douvlou" tou' qeou' hJmw'n ejpi; tw'n metwvpwn  
	c.	until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads
		kai; h[kousa to;n ajriqmo;n tw'n ejsfragismevnwn  
7:4	a.	then I heard the number of those having been sealed
		eJkato;n tesseravkonta tevssare" ciliavde"  
	b.	one hundred forty four thousand
		ejsfragismevnoi ejk pavsh" fulh'" uiJw'n !Israhvl  
	c.	having been sealed from every tribe of the nation of Israel
		ejk fulh'" !Iouvda dwvdeka ciliavde" ejsfragismevnoi  
7:5	a.	from (the) tribe of Judah twelve thousand having been sealed
		ejk fulh'" @Roubh;n dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	b.	from (the) tribe of Reuben twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Ga;d dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	c.	from (the) tribe of Gad twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" !Ash;r dwvdeka ciliavde"  
7:6	a.	from (the) tribe of Asher twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Nefqali;m dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	b.	from (the) tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Manassh' dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	c.	from (the) tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Sumew;n dwvdeka ciliavde"  
7:7	a.	from (the) tribe of Simeon twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Leui; dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	b.	from (the) tribe of Levi twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" !Issaca;r dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	c.	from (the) tribe of Issachar twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Zaboulw;n dwvdeka ciliavde"  
7:8	a.	from (the) tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" !Iwsh;f dwvdeka ciliavde"  
	b.	from (the) tribe of Joseph twelve thousand
		ejk fulh'" Beniami;n dwvdeka ciliavde" ejsfragismevnoi  
	c.	from (the) tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand having been sealed
		meta; tau'ta ei\don  
7:9	a.	after this I looked
		kai; ijdou;  
	b.	now pay attention
		o[clo" poluv" o}n ajriqmh'sai aujto;n oujdei;" ejduvnato  
	c.	(a) large crowd that no one was able to count it
		ejk panto;" e[qnou" kai; fulw'n kai; law'n kai; glwssw'n  
	d.	from every nation and tribe and people and language
		eJstw'te" ejnwvpion tou' qrovnou kai; ejnwvpion tou' ajrnivou  
	e.	standing before the throne and before the Lamb
		peribeblhmevnou" stola;" leuka;"  
	f.	having been clothed in white long robes
		kai; foivnike" ejn tai'" cersi;n aujtw'n  
	g.	and (having) palm branches in their hands
		kai; kravzousin fwnh'/ megavlh/ levgonte"  
7:10	a.	and they called out in (a) loud voice saying
		hJ swthriva tw'/ qew'/ hJmw'n tw'/ kaqhmevnw/ ejpi; tw'/ qrovnw/  
	b.	salvation (is) by our God the One sitting upon the throne
		kai; tw'/ ajrnivw/  
	c.	and also by the Lamb
		kai; pavnte" oiJ a[ggeloi eiJsthvkeisan kuvklw/ tou' qrovnou  
7:11	a.	further all the angels took their stand around the throne
		kai; tw'n presbutevrwn kai; tw'n tessavrwn zwv/wn  
	b.	and (around) the elders and the four living beings
		kai; e[pesan ejnwvpion tou' qrovnou ejpi; ta; provswpa aujtw'n  
	c.	then they fell down before the throne on their faces
		kai; prosekuvnhsan tw'/ qew'/  
	d.	and they worshipped God
		levgonte" ajmhvn  
7:12	a.	saying amen
		hJ eujlogiva kai; hJ dovxa kai; hJ sofiva kai; hJ eujcaristiva  
	b.	the praise and the glory and the wisdom and the thanksgiving
		kai; hJ timh; kai; hJ duvnami" kai; hJ ijscu;" tw'/ qew'/ hJmw'n  
	c.	and the honour and the power and the might (belongs) to our God
		eij" tou;" aijw'na" tw'n aijwvnwn ajmhvn  
	d.	forever and ever amen
		kai; ajpekrivqh ei|" ejk tw'n presbutevrwn levgwn moi  
7:13	a.	then one of the elders declared saying to me
		ou|toi oiJ peribeblhmevnoi ta;" stola;" ta;" leuka;"  
	b.	these ones having been clothed in white long robes
		tivne" eijsi;n kai; povqen h\lqon_  
	c.	who are they and from where did they come?
		kai; ei[rhka aujtw'/  
7:14	a.	and I said to him
		kuvrie mou su; oi\da"  
	b.	my master you know
		kai; ei\pen moi  
	c.	then he said to me
		ou|toi eijsin oiJ ejrcovmenoi ejk th'" qlivyew" th'" megavlh"  
	d.	these are the ones coming out of the great hardship
		kai; e[plunan ta;" stola;" aujtw'n  
	e.	indeed they washed their long robes
		kai; ejleuvkanan aujta;" ejn tw'/ ai{mati tou' ajrnivou  
	f.	indeed they made them white by the blood of the Lamb
		dia; tou'to eijsin ejnwvpion tou' qrovnou tou' qeou'  
7:15	a.	because of this they are before the throne of God
		kai; latreuvousin aujtw'/ hJmevra" kai; nukto;" ejn tw'/ naw'/ aujtou'  
	b.	and they worship Him day and night in His temple
		kai; oJ kaqhvmeno" ejpi; tou' qrovnou  
	c.	and the One sitting upon the throne
		skhnwvsei ejp! aujtouv"  
	d.	will come to dwell with them
		ouj peinavsousin e[ti oujde; diyhvsousin e[ti  
7:16	a.	they shall not hunger anymore and not thirst anymore
		oujde; mh; pevsh/ ejp! aujtou;" oJ h{lio" oujde; pa'n kau'ma   
	b.	neither not shall the sun cause them to suffer nor any scorching heat
		o{ti to; ajrnivon to; ajna; mevson tou' qrovnou poimanei' aujtou;"  
7:17	a.	for the Lamb in the middle of the throne will guide and help them
		kai; oJdhghvsei aujtou;" ejpi; zwh'" phga;" uJdavtwn  
	b.	and He will lead them to springs of living waters
		kai; ejxaleivyei oJ qeo;" pa'n davkruon ejk tw'n ojfqalmw'n aujtw'n  
	c.	and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes
