		kai; o{tan h[noixen th;n sfragi'da th;n eJbdovmhn  
8:1	a.	and when He opened the seventh seal
		ejgevneto sigh; ejn tw'/ oujranw'/ wJ" hJmiwvrion  
	b.	there was silence in heaven about half an hour
		kai; ei\don tou;" eJpta; ajggevlou" oi} ejnwvpion tou' qeou' eJsthvkasin  
8:2	a.	then I saw the seven angels who were standing before God
		kai; ejdovqhsan aujtoi'" eJpta; savlpigge"  
	b.	and to them seven trumpets were given
		kai; a[llo" a[ggelo" h\lqen  
8:3	a.	also another angel came
		kai; ejstavqh ejpi; tou' qusiasthrivou  
	b.	and he stood at the altar
		e[cwn libanwto;n crusou'n  
	c.	having (a) golden censer
		kai; ejdovqh aujtw'/ qumiavmata pollav  
	d.	and many incense offerings was given to him
		i{na dwvsei tai'" proseucai'" tw'n aJgivwn pavntwn  
	e.	so that he will put the prayers of all the people of God
		ejpi; to; qusiasthvrion to; crusou'n to; ejnwvpion tou' qrovnou  
	f.	upon the golden altar the one in front of the throne
		kai; ajnevbh oJ kapno;" tw'n qumiamavtwn  
8:4	a.	and smoke of the incense offerings went up
		tai'" proseucai'" tw'n aJgivwn  
	b.	with the prayers of God's people
		ejk ceiro;" tou' ajggevlou ejnwvpion tou' qeou'  
	c.	from (the) hand of the angel before God
		kai; ei[lhfen oJ a[ggelo" to;n libanwto;n  
8:5	a.	then the angel took the censer
		kai; ejgevmisen aujto;n ejk tou' puro;" tou' qusiasthrivou  
	b.	and he filled it from the fire of the altar
		kai; e[balen eij" th;n gh'n  
	c.	and he threw (it) onto the earth
		kai; ejgevnonto brontai; kai; fwnai; kai; ajstrapai; kai;  
	d.	and then occurred thunders and sounds and lightnings and (an) earthquake
		kai; oiJ eJpta; a[ggeloi oiJ e[conte" ta;" eJpta; savlpigga"  
8:6	a.	now the seven angels the ones having the seven trumpets
		hJtoivmasan aujtou;" i{na salpivswsin  
	b.	prepared them so that they may blow the trumpets
		kai; oJ prw'to" ejsavlpisen  
8:7	a.	then the first trumpet sounded
		kai; ejgevneto cavlaza kai; pu'r  
	b.	and then occurred hail and fire
		memigmevna ejn ai{mati  
	c.	having been mixed with blood
		kai; ejblhvqh eij" th;n gh'n  
	d.	and it was thrown onto the earth
		kai; to; trivton th'" gh'" katekavh  
	e.	and (a) third of the land  was burned up
		kai; to; trivton tw'n devndrwn katekavh  
	f.	also (a) third of the trees was burned up
		kai; pa'" covrto" clwro;" katekavh  
	g.	indeed all green grass was burned up
		kai; oJ deuvtero" a[ggelo" ejsavlpisen  
8:8	a.	then the second angel blew the trumpet
		kai; wJ" o[ro" mevga puri; kaiovmenon  
	b.	and (something) like (a) big mountain burning with fire
		ejblhvqh eij" th;n qavlassan  
	c.	was thrown into the sea
		kai; ejgevneto to; trivton th'" qalavssh" ai|ma  
	d.	and (a) third of the sea became blood
		kai; ajpevqanen to; trivton tw'n ktismavtwn tw'n ejn th'/ qalavssh/  
8:9	a.	and (a) third of the creatures of those in the sea died
		ta; e[conta yuca;"  
	b.	the ones having life
		kai; to; trivton tw'n ploivwn diefqavrhsan  
	c.	and (a) third of the boats were destroyed utterly
		kai; oJ trivto" a[ggelo" ejsavlpisen  
8:10	a.	then the third angel blew the trumpet
		kai; e[pesen ejk tou' oujranou' ajsth;r mevga"  
	b.	and (a) great star fell from the sky
		kaiovmeno" wJ" lampa;"  
	c.	burning like (a) torch
		kai; e[pesen ejpi; to; trivton tw'n potamw'n  
	d.	and it fell upon (a) third of the rivers
		kai; ejpi; ta;" phga;" tw'n uJdavtwn  
	e.	and upon the fountains of the waters
		kai; to; o[noma tou' ajstevro" levgetai oJ #Ayinqo"  
8:11	a.	and the name of the star is called Wormwood
		kai; ejgevneto to; trivton tw'n uJdavtwn eij" a[yinqon  
	b.	and (a) third of the waters became to be bitter
		kai; polloi; tw'n ajnqrwvpwn ajpevqanon ejk tw'n uJdavtwn  
	c.	and many of the people died because of the waters
		o{ti ejpikravnqhsan  
	d.	because they were made bitter
		kai; oJ tevtarto" a[ggelo" ejsavlpisen  
8:12	a.	then the fourth angel blew the trumpet
		kai; ejplhvgh to; trivton tou' hJlivou  
	b.	and (a) third of the sun was struck
		kai; to; trivton th'" selhvnh"  
	c.	also (a) third of the moon
		kai; to; trivton tw'n ajstevrwn  
	d.	as well as (a) third of the stars
		i{na skotisqh'/ to; trivton aujtw'n   
	e.	so that (a) third of them became dark
		kai; hJ hJmevra mh; favnh/ to; trivton aujth'"  
	f.	and the day would not shine for (a) third of it
		kai; hJ nu;x oJmoivw"  
	g.	also the night likewise
		kai; ei\don  
8:13	a.	then I looked
		kai; h[kousa eJno;" ajetou'  
	b.	and I heard one eagle
		petomevnou ejn mesouranhvmati  
	c.	flying in midheaven
		levgonto" fwnh'/ megavlh/  
	d.	saying with (a) loud voice
		oujai; oujai; oujai; tou;" katoikou'nta" ejpi; th'" gh'"    
	e.	horror horror horror to those living on the earth
		ejk tw'n loipw'n fwnw'n th'" savlpiggo"  
	f.	at the time of the other sounds of the trumpet
		tw'n triw'n ajggevlwn tw'n mellovntwn salpivzein  
	g.	of the three angels the ones about to blow the trumpet
