		Sunivsthmi de; uJmi'n Foivbhn th;n ajdelfh;n hJmw'n  
16:1	a.	I now recommend to you Phoebe our sister in the faith
		ou\san »kai;¼ diavkonon th'" ejkklhsiva" th'" ejn Kegcreai'"  
	b.	being [also] (a) deacon of the church in Cenchreae
		i{na aujth;n prosdevxhsqe ejn kurivw/ ajxivw" tw'n aJgivwn   
16:2	a.	so that you may welcome her in (the) Lord fitting of God's people
		kai; parasth'te aujth'/ ejn w|/ a]n uJmw'n crhv/zh/ pravgmati   
	b.	and help her in what ever task she may need of you
		kai; ga;r aujth; prostavti" pollw'n ejgenhvqh 
	c.	for she also became (a) helper of many
		kai; ejmou' aujtou' 
	d.	also of me myself
		ajspavsasqe Privskan kai; !Akuvlan  
16:3	a.	greet Prisca and Aquila
		tou;" sunergouv" mou ejn Cristw'/ !Ihsou' 
	b.	my fellow workers in Christ Jesus
		oi{tine" uJpe;r th'" yuch'" mou to;n eJautw'n travchlon uJpevqhkan 
16:4	a.	who for my person risked their own life
		oi|" oujk ejgw; movno" eujcaristw' 
	b.	to whom not only I am thankful
		ajlla; kai; pa'sai aiJ ejkklhsivai tw'n ejqnw'n 
	c.	but also all the churches of the Gentiles
		kai; th;n kat! oi\kon aujtw'n ejkklhsivan  
16:5	a.	(greet) also the church in their house
		ajspavsasqe !Epaivneton to;n ajgaphtovn mou 
	b.	greet my dear Epaenetus
		o{" ejstin ajparch; th'" !Asiva" eij" Cristovn  
	c.	who is (the) first of Asia (who turned) to Christ
		ajspavsasqe Marivan h{ti" polla; ejkopivasen eij" uJma'" 
16:6	a.	greet Mary who worked very hard for you
		ajspavsasqe !Androvnikon kai; !Iounia'n  
16:7	a.	greet Andronicus and Junias
		tou;" suggenei'" mou kai; sunaicmalwvtou" mou  
	b.	my relatives and also my fellow prisoners
		oi{tine" eijsin ejpivshmoi ejn toi'" ajpostovloi" 
	c.	who are outstanding among the apostles
		oi} kai; pro; ejmou' gevgonan ejn Cristw'/ 
	d.	who also before me have become in Christ
		ajspavsasqe !Amplia'ton to;n ajgaphtovn mou ejn kurivw/  
16:8	a.	greet Ampliatus my dear one in (the) Lord
		ajspavsasqe !Ourbano;n to;n sunergo;n hJmw'n ejn Cristw'/ 
16:9	a.	greet Urbanus our fellow worker in Christ
		kai; Stavcun to;n ajgaphtovn mou 
	b.	and my dear Stachys
		ajspavsasqe !Apellh'n to;n dovkimon ejn Cristw'/ 
16:10	a.	greet Apelles the respected one in Christ
		ajspavsasqe tou;" ejk tw'n !Aristobouvlou   
	b.	greet those from the ones of Aristobulus
		ajspavsasqe @Hrw/divwna to;n suggenh' mou 
16:11	a.	greet Herodion my relative
		ajspavsasqe tou;" ejk tw'n Narkivssou tou;" o[nta" ejn kurivw/  
	b.	greet those out of those of Narcissus those being in (the) Lord
		ajspavsasqe Truvfainan kai; Trufw'san ta;" kopiwvsa" ejn  kurivw/ 
16:12	a.	greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa those having worked hard in (the) Lord
		ajspavsasqe Persivda th;n ajgaphthvn  
	b.	greet Persis the dear one
		h{ti" polla; ejkopivasen ejn kurivw/ 
	c.	who worked very hard in (the) Lord
		ajspavsasqe @Rou'fon to;n ejklekto;n ejn kurivw/ 
16:13	a.	greet Rufus the chosen one in (the) Lord
		kai; th;n mhtevra aujtou' kai; ejmou' 
	b.	and his mother and mine
		ajspavsasqe !Asuvgkriton Flevgonta @Ermh'n Patroba'n @Erma'n  
16:14	a.	greet Asyncritus Phlegon Hermes Patrobas Hermas
		kai; tou;" su;n aujtoi'" ajdelfouv" 
	b.	and the fellow believers with them
		ajspavsasqe Filovlogon kai; !Ioulivan 
16:15	a.	greet Philologus and Julia
		Nhreva kai; th;n ajdelfh;n aujtou' 
	b.	Nereus and his sister
		kai; !Olumpa'n 
	c.	also Olympas
		kai; tou;" su;n aujtoi'" pavnta" aJgivou" 
	d.	and all God's people with them
		ajspavsasqe ajllhvlou" ejn filhvmati aJgivw/ 
16:16	a.	greet one another with (a) holy kiss
		ajspavzontai uJma'" aiJ ejkklhsivai pa'sai tou' Cristou' 
	b.	all the congregations of Christ greet you
		parakalw' de; uJma'" ajdelfoiv  
16:17	a.	I then encourage you fellow believers
		skopei'n tou;" ta;" dicostasiva" kai; ta; skavndala  
	b.	to watch out for those (causing) divisions and sin
		para; th;n didach;n h}n uJmei'" ejmavqete poiou'nta" 
	c.	acting against the teaching that you were taught
		kai; ejkklivnete ajp! aujtw'n  
	d.	indeed keep away from them
		oiJ ga;r toiou'toi tw'/ kurivw/ hJmw'n Cristw'/ ouj douleuvousin  
16:18	a.	for such people do not serve our Lord Christ
		ajlla; th'/ eJautw'n koiliva/ 
	b.	but their own physical desires
		kai; dia; th'" crhstologiva" kai; eujlogiva"  
	c.	and by fine language and flattery
		ejxapatw'sin ta;" kardiva" tw'n ajkavkwn 
	d.	they mislead the minds of the naive
		hJ ga;r uJmw'n uJpakoh; eij" pavnta" ajfivketo 
16:19	a.	nevertheless your obedience became known to all
		ejf! uJmi'n ou\n caivrw 
	b.	about you I am indeed happy
		qevlw de; uJma'" sofou;" ei\nai eij" to; ajgaqovn 
	c.	and I want you to be wise concerning the good
		ajkeraivou" de; eij" to; kakovn  
	d.	and untainted concerning the evil
		oJ de; qeo;" th'" eijrhvnh" suntrivyei to;n satana'n uJpo; tou;" povda" uJmw'n ejn tavcei      
16:20	a.	and the God of peace will soon crush Satan to be under your complete control
		hJ cavri" tou' kurivou hJmw'n !Ihsou' meq! uJmw'n 
	b.	the grace of our Lord Jesus (be) with you
		ajspavzetai uJma'" Timovqeo" oJ sunergov" mou  
16:21	a.	Timothy my fellow worker greets you
		kai; Louvkio" kai; !Iavswn kai; Swsivpatro" oiJ suggenei'" mou 
	b.	and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater my relatives
		ajspavzomai uJma'" ejgw; Tevrtio" oJ gravya" th;n ejpistolh;n ejn kurivw/  
16:22	a.	I Tertius the one having written the letter greet you in (the) Lord
		ajspavzetai uJma'" Gavi>o" oJ xevno" mou kai; o{lh" th'" ejkklhsiva" 
16:23	a.	Gaius my host and (that) of the whole church greets you
		ajspavzetai uJma'" %Erasto" oJ oijkonovmo" th'" povlew" 
	b.	Erastus the treasurer of the city greets you
		kai; Kouvarto" oJ ajdelfov"  
	c.	and Quartus our fellow believer
		tw'/ de; dunamevnw/ uJma'" sthrivxai    
16:25	a.	now to the One able to make you strong
		kata; to; eujaggevlion mou   
	b.	in accordance with my gospel
		kai; to; khvrugma !Ihsou' Cristou' 
	c.	and also the preaching of Jesus Christ
		kata; ajpokavluyin musthrivou  
	d.	in accordance with (the) revelation of (the) mystery
		crovnoi" aijwnivoi" sesighmevnou 
	e.	kept quiet since all time
		fanerwqevnto" de; nu'n 
16:26	a.	but now revealed
		diav te grafw'n profhtikw'n 
	b.	and also by prophetic passages
		kat! ejpitagh;n tou' aijwnivou qeou'  
	c.	in accordance with (the) command of the eternal God
		eij" uJpakoh;n pivstew" 
	d.	to obedience of faith
		eij" pavnta ta; e[qnh gnwrisqevnto" 
	e.	made known to all the nations
		movnw/ sofw'/ qew'/ 
16:27	a.	to (the) only wise God
		dia; !Ihsou' Cristou' 
	b.	through Jesus Christ
		w|/ hJ dovxa eij" tou;" aijw'na"    
	c.	to Whom (is) the glory forever
		ajmhvn   
	d.	amen
