		uJpomivmnh/ske aujtou;" ajrcai'" ejxousivai" uJpotavssesqai peiqarcei'n 
3:1	a.	remind them to submit to rulers (and) to authorities to obey (them)
		pro;" pa'n e[rgon ajgaqo;n eJtoivmou" ei\nai  
	b.	to be ready for every good work
		mhdevna blasfhmei'n 
3:2	a.	to slander no one
		ajmavcou" ei\nai 
	b.	to be peaceful
		ejpieikei'" 
	c.	(to be) gentle
		pa'san ejndeiknumevnou" prau?thta pro;" pavnta" ajnqrwvpou"  
	d.	showing all gentleness to all people
		h\men gavr pote kai; hJmei'" ajnovhtoi  
3:3	a.	even us yes we were once foolish
		ajpeiqei'" planwvmenoi 
	b.	disobedient ones straying from the truth
		douleuvonte" ejpiqumivai" kai; hJdonai'" poikivlai" 
	c.	being slaves to lusts and all sorts of pleasures
		ejn kakiva/ kai; fqovnw/ diavgonte" 
	d.	behaving in malice and envy
		stughtoiv misou'nte" ajllhvlou" 
	e.	hated ones hating one another
		o{te de; hJ crhstovth" kai; hJ filanqrwpiva ejpefavnh tou' swth'ro"    
3:4	a.	but when the kindness and the affection for people of God     
		hJmw'n qeou'   
		our Saviour appeared
		oujk ejx e[rgwn tw'n ejn dikaiosuvnh/ a} ejpoihvsamen hJmei'"  
3:5	a.	not because of deeds that we did for righteousness
		ajlla; kata; to; aujtou' e[leo" 
	b.	but in accordance with His mercy
		e[swsen hJma'" dia; loutrou' paliggenesiva" 
	c.	He saved us through (the) washing of rebirth
		kai; ajnakainwvsew" pneuvmato" aJgivou 
	d.	and (the) renewal of (the) Holy Spirit
		ou| ejxevceen ejf! hJma'" plousivw" dia; !Ihsou' Cristou' tou' swth'ro"   
3:6	a.	Whom He richly poured out upon us by Jesus Christ our   
		hJmw'n  
		Saviour
		i{na dikaiwqevnte" th'/ ejkeivnou cavriti   
3:7	a.	so that having been justified by His grace
		klhronovmoi genhqw'men kat! ejlpivda zwh'" aijwnivou  
	b.	we could become receivers with regard to (the) hope of eternal life
		pisto;" oJ lovgo" 
3:8	a.	the statement (is) sure
		kai; peri; touvtwn bouvlomai se diabebaiou'sqai 
	b.	and about these things I want you to insist
		i{na frontivzwsin kalw'n e[rgwn proi?stasqai  
	c.	so that they may ponder to strive for good works
		oiJ pepisteukovte" qew'/  
	d.	those having believed in God
		tau'ta ejstin kala; kai; wjfevlima toi'" ajnqrwvpoi" 
	e.	these things are good and beneficial to people
		mwra;" de; zhthvsei" kai; genealogiva" kai; e[rei" kai; mavca" nomika;"   
3:9	a.	further keep away from foolish disputes and genealogies and   
		perii?staso  
		quarrels and fights about the Law
		eijsi;n ga;r ajnwfelei'" kai; mavtaioi 
	b.	because they are useless and futile
		aiJretiko;n a[nqrwpon meta; mivan kai; deutevran nouqesivan   
3:10	a.	after one and (a) second warning have nothing to do with (a)    
		paraitou'  
		divisive person
		eijdw;" o{ti 
3:11	a.	knowing that
		ejxevstraptai oJ toiou'to" 
	b.	such a person has become corrupt
		kai; aJmartavnei 
	c.	and he sins
		w]n aujtokatavkrito"  
	d.	being condemned by his own actions
		o{tan pevmyw !Artema'n pro;" se; h] Tuvcikon  
3:12	a.	when I will send Artemas to you or Tychicus
		spouvdason ejlqei'n prov" me eij" Nikovpolin 
	b.	hurry to come to me in Nicopolis
		ejkei' ga;r kevkrika paraceimavsai  
	c.	for there I have decided to stay for the winter
		Zhna'n to;n nomiko;n kai; !Apollw'n spoudaivw" provpemyon  
3:13	a.	send Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way doing your best
		i{na mhde;n aujtoi'" leivph/ 
	b.	so that nothing lacks them
		manqanevtwsan de; kai; oiJ hJmevteroi 
3:14	a.	and let also our  people be taught
		kalw'n e[rgwn proi?stasqai eij" ta;" ajnagkaiva" creiva"    
	b.	to strive for good works in dealing with the necessary needs
		i{na mh; w\sin a[karpoi 
	c.	so that they may not be unproductive
		ajspavzontai se oiJ met! ejmou' pavnte"  
3:15	a.	all those with me greet you
		a[spasai tou;" filou'nta" hJma'" ejn pivstei 
	b.	greet those loving us in faith
		hJ cavri" meta; pavntwn uJmw'n   
    c.	grace (be) with you all
