		Pau'lo" dou'lo" qeou' 
1:1	a.	Paul (a) bondservant of God
		ajpovstolo" de; !Ihsou' Cristou'  
	b.	and (an) apostle of Jesus Christ
		kata; pivstin ejklektw'n qeou' 
	c.	according to (the) faith of God's chosen people
		kai; ejpivgnwsin ajlhqeiva" 
	d.	and (according to) knowledge of (the) truth
		th'" kat! eujsevbeian  
	e.	the (faith) according to godliness
		ejp! ejlpivdi zwh'" aijwnivou  
1:2	a.	by (the) hope of eternal life
		h}n ejphggeivlato oJ ajyeudh;" qeo;" pro; crovnwn aijwnivwn 
	b.	which the truthful God promised since all time
		ejfanevrwsen de; kairoi'" ijdivoi" to;n lovgon aujtou' ejn khruvgmati  
1:3	a.	and revealed at His own time His message through preaching
		o} ejpisteuvqhn ejgw; kat! ejpitagh;n tou' swth'ro" hJmw'n qeou'  
	b.	which I was entrusted with by (the) decree of God our Saviour
		Tivtw/ gnhsivw/ tevknw/ kata; koinh;n pivstin 
1:4	a.	to Titus (a) real son by mutual faith
		cavri" kai; eijrhvnh ajpo; qeou' patro;" 
	b.	grace and peace from God (our) Father
		kai; Cristou' !Ihsou' tou' swth'ro" hJmw'n  
	c.	and (from) Christ Jesus our Saviour
		touvtou cavrin ajpevlipon se ejn Krhvth/  
1:5	a.	because of this I left you behind in Crete
		i{na ta; leivponta ejpidiorqwvsh/ 
	b.	so that you put in order the things needed
		kai; katasthvsh/" kata; povlin presbutevrou"  
	c.	and (so that) you appoint elders from town to town
		wJ" ejgwv soi dietaxavmhn 
	d.	as I instructed you
		ei[ tiv" ejstin ajnevgklhto" 
1:6	a.	if someone is without accusation
		mia'" gunaiko;" ajnhvr 
	b.	(is) husband of one wife
		tevkna e[cwn pistav 
	c.	having trustworthy children
		mh; ejn kathgoriva/ ajswtiva" h] ajnupovtakta 
	d.	not in accusation of wild living or rebellious
		dei' ga;r to;n ejpivskopon ajnevgklhton ei\nai wJ" qeou'   
1:7	a.	because the church leader as manager of God must be without   
		oijkonovmon  
		accusation
		mh; aujqavdh mh; ojrgivlon mh; pavroinon mh; plhvkthn mh;  
	b.	not arrogant not quick tempered not (a) drunkard not (a) bully not  
		aijscrokerdh' 
		shamefully greedy
		ajlla; filovxenon filavgaqon swvfrona divkaion o{sion   
1:8	a.	but hospitable loving what is good sensible righteous holy self-   
		ejgkrath'  
		controlled
		ajntecovmenon tou' kata; th;n didach;n pistou' lovgou  
1:9	a.	holding to the sure gospel in line with the teaching
		i{na dunato;" h\/ kai; parakalei'n ejn th'/ didaskaliva/ th'/ uJgiainouvsh/ 
	b.	so that he may be able indeed to encourage by sound teaching
		kai; tou;" ajntilevgonta" ejlevgcein 
	c.	and to rebuke those speaking in opposition
		eijsi;n ga;r polloi; »kai;¼ ajnupovtaktoi mataiolovgoi kai; frenapavtai  
1:10	a.	indeed many [also] are uncontrolled foolish babblers and deceivers
		mavlista oiJ ejk th'" peritomh'" 
	b.	especially those from the circumcision
		ou}" dei' ejpistomivzein 
1:11	a.	who must be put to silence
		oi{tine" o{lou" oi[kou" ajnatrevpousin 
	b.	these who upset whole households
		didavskonte" a} mh; dei' 
	c.	teaching what should not
		aijscrou' kevrdou" cavrin 
	d.	for the sake of disgraceful gain
		ei\pen ti" ejx aujtw'n   
1:12	a.	one of them said
		i[dio" aujtw'n profhvth"  
	b.	an own prophet of them
		Krh'te" ajei; yeu'stai kaka; qhriva gastevre" ajrgaiv 
	c.	Cretans (are) always liars evil beasts lazy gluttons
		hJ marturiva au{th ejsti;n ajlhqhv" 
1:13	a.	this testimony is true
		di! h}n aijtivan e[legce aujtou;" ajpotovmw" 
	b.	for which reason you must rebuke them harshly
		i{na uJgiaivnwsin ejn th'/ pivstei 
	c.	so that they may be sound in the faith
		mh; prosevconte" !Ioudai>koi'" muvqoi" kai; ejntolai'" ajnqrwvpwn  
1:14	a.	not continuing to believe Jewish fables and commands of people
		ajpostrefomevnwn th;n ajlhvqeian  
	b.	turning away from the truth
		pavnta kaqara; toi'" kaqaroi'" 
1:15	a.	everything (is) pure for the pure
		toi'" de; memiammevnoi" kai; ajpivstoi" oujde;n kaqarovn 
	b.	but for the defiled and unbelieving nothing (is) pure
		ajlla; memivantai aujtw'n kai; oJ nou'" kai; hJ suneivdhsi"  
	c.	but both their mind and conscience is defiled
		qeo;n oJmologou'sin eijdevnai 
1:16	a.	God they profess to know
		toi'" de; e[rgoi" ajrnou'ntai  
	b.	but by their deeds they deny (God)
		bdeluktoi; o[nte" kai; ajpeiqei'" 
	c.	being detestable and disobedient
		kai; pro;" pa'n e[rgon ajgaqo;n ajdovkimoi 
	d.	and worthless for any good work
